- Describe the pile better
- What an individual looked like: what kind of trenchcoat
- What did the Brooklyn 3 look like
  - Make sure Lian is a guy
- The center of the mo
- PETA?
- Incomprehensible?
- Smell?
- Them giving up vs. uninteresting
- Manhattan?










Ch1. The Terrible Explosion of the Toadies

In another galaxy, beyond all belief, where stars exist beyond the outer reaches of stars themselves, lies the unimaginable. If you can imagine it it's not there. The only light there is darkness. And the only darkness, is Toadies.

As the sun set that fateful day in July over the city, the people of it slowly set out on their dinner dates, picking up their complaining children, doing overtime on the thirty third floor, counting the money they begged for all day, commuting home and starting laundry night.

But something suspicious was in the air. Something irreconcilable, something vicious and wondrous. All of humanity felt it that sundown. They looked at eachother, not sure what to say. They didn't know how to say it but the hopefuls and the tightened and the indifferent all knew, they were finally coming. No, _nay_, nay nay, they were finally here.

Although witness accounts of the first Toadies vary wildly, the most commonly agreed upon account was the pile at the intersection of twentieth and first avenue. Traffic ground to a halt when a driver noticed he couldn't enter the intersection. What appeared to be a large pile of hulking masses sat in the center motionless.

The driver said he got out of the car. A few passerbys stopped and stared at the large pile. He counted at least fifteen things were piled on top of eachother in a heap. The driver approached the pile very slowly. He kicked one of the things, but nothing moved. He kicked it again, but it was like he was kicking a bunch of dead bodies. But they were clearly not dead bodies. Their skin, their faces, everything about the things in the pile screamed aliens, and they were alive in his eyes.

Approximately ten minutes later, someone called the police. Another called an ambulance. But the city's services were too busy with the many piles appearing all across the city. Every ten blocks a pile showed up in an intersection. People were confused and didn't know what to do.

Soon the national guard was called, then the S.W.A.T teams, then the CIA, then the FBI, etc. Tough looking chiefs emerged with day old stubbles and quick sharp glances. One of them went right up to a pile and shot a body, then many did, not understanding if they were threats or peaceful. But nothing happened. They sat there, stiff.

It was the year twenty oh thirty teen, they erupted. It was the later teens so it was far worse than the normal teens. Nothing could have prepared the earth from the disasterous consequences that the Toadies befell on it.

They were present on a mass scale. The piles appeared mostly in urban areas. They were rarer outside in the suburbs, and still rarer in forests and mountains. But they were there. You could count on a pile showing up like no on'es business.

Once word spread across the world the chaos of concern was obvious. People were in a panic every which way. They were drowning in mixed emotions. Some wanted to protect the Toadies, others simply wanted them destroyed forever. Some just wanted them out of the way so they could drive.

The conspiracy theorists went nuts. Suddenly all their theories were correct. They put on their tin hats with pride and stood on top of the piles proud, smiling and posing for each picture taken.

At first scientists felt like a new era had dawned. _Aliens at last!_

So they began to remove the bodies to their labs. But every time someone removed one of the alien bodies, it would sneak back on to the pile. "Oh you've got to be kidding me"s echoed in every labratory. The trenchcoat each of them wore made them even more suspicious on the cameras. Even in locked down facilities they found ways out, which drove both security, governments and the scientists mad. So when they couldn't possibly bring them to their labs, they brought their labs to the intersections, roads and rooftops. The piles remained.

And it only got worse. The scientists grew only more frustrated when they realized that these aliens were not alive or dead. Nothing about them made scientific sense. The jumble of cells that made up their bodies were not only incomprehensible but also reprehensible. Their skin, their innards, their scans, their clothing, everything was deemed irrelevant or uninteresting to study. Even their trenchcoats were like pleather and them at all, deeming them completely out of style and unfashionable by multiple tabloids and major media companies.

"This is stupid." Said a French top science official, and his sentiment was mutual. After a few months, it was apparent no celebration was necessary. 

Slowly around the world scientists, cultists, politicians, regular people... They all grew disappointed, even bored. These aliens did nothing. These were not the aliens they were looking for.

And there they remained. They blocked traffic, obstructed views in parks and deemed a public nuisance. The many departments of motor vehicles had to adjust their road rules to drive around them. 

The animal and enviormentalist groups also gave up but a few subsets held strong. The sympathizers who remained were no more than a few thousand people around the globe. Their cause was hard fought because they could neither prove or disprove that spitting, hitting or disturbing any of the Toadies was harming them. The general public thought of these groups as annoying as The Toadies, so they took their meetings wherever they could. They held them in bunkers, in quiet rooms at the library or online.

One such group met every few months. A small meeting of three congregated at exactly 11:03 am, Saturday April 20th 2052 in Brooklyn new York. For security no one gave out their real names, so attendance was rattled off with their aliases.

"Sandy,
Lian,
The Ephemeral One." said The Ephemeral One. She drew a smiley face in the box next to each of their aliases.

"What's our agenda'?" Sandy sighed. The three sat in her son's treehouse while he was away with his friends under the guise that the they wanted a bit of a view while playing bridge. It was a flimsy argument, but Sandy's son and husband were both worried about her lack of hobbies and antisocial lifestyle, so they didn't pry too much.

"I want to talk about the ones on Bond st." Lian said, looking over pages of notes. "I was investigating it two weeks ago and noticed they were very wet so I wiped them down."

"What did you wipe them with?" The Ephemeral One waited. 

"Well, I started with a small towel but I guess that wasn't enough so I used a bath towel."

"What were the colors of both towels?" The Ephemeral One asked again, frantically scribbling.

"The small towel was a beige hand towel. The bath towel, that had a picture of a panda on it."

"... Panda... Like in a bamboo forest?"

"Ah, no just like a panda and the background was yellow, like on a beach I guess? I think there was an ocean behind it." Lian wiped his glasses.

"Ok got it."

"Why did you wipe them, don't they get wet all the time?" Sandy had her legs curled up to her chest. The only sounds were the birds and The Ephemerant One's note taking (maybe make it a more vibrant summers day?).

"I had this feeling, like they needed to be dry... I don't know I felt bad I guess. If- if it were me lying out there and it just rained... I'd want to be wiped."

"But doesn't that kind of intefere with their solitude and humbled existence?" The Ephemeral one suggested.

"Yea, I thought of that too. But they have withstood so many weather problems, people problems too... I thought they wouldn't mind, maybe appreciate me lending them a hand. None of the neighbors have ever done it."

The three nodded solemnly in agreement, and were silent for a few moments.

"The Ephemerant One," Sandy said uneasily, "have you noticed them recently?"

The Ephemerant One looked up from her notepad. "Who, the neighbors?"

"No, I don't know. Have you Lian?" Sandy looked at Lian hopefully.

"I don't know what you mean?"

Sandy shifted uneasily. This only made the other two more intrigued. They looked at her intently. Lian was curious, but The Ephemerant One's demeanor turned dead serious. Her face lost a few shades of color. Sandy's hesitation in her questions injected life into their meeting like a long sought after revelation.

"What did you see?" The Ephemerant One asked slowly, "Please... Be... Descriptive."

"I knew you'd get like this The Ephemerant One." Sandy shuffled, gesturing them both to stop leaning into her.

"You can't just say something like that-" Lian started.

"Well, it's hard to describe. It's like, ah. I was walking by a pile of them, and I saw that something was different."

"Different from the other piles?" The Ephemerant One's eyes widened.

"No, but like... No I looked at a different pile, and realized they all changed."

"What changed?" Lian asked pacing his words dramatically.

Sandy shifted again. "I'm not even sure how to describe it. Just walk right up to one, look it, in the, what, face is it? I guess? You'll see what I mean."

The Ephemerant One's mind was suddenly empty. She wasn't sure what to think.

Later that night, The Ephemerant One went to bed early so she could do her own private investigation at two in the morning. There was a pile in the middle of a dead end roundabout she usually visited to observe some Toadies in peace.

Armed with a magnifying glass, a flashlight, some beef jerky and a high definition camera, she walked up to the pile. She climbed up to the top, where she noticed one of the toadies was lying face up. Its trench coat was ruffled like the rest of them. But she didn't need any detective work to know what had happened. It only took one look.

Her heart stuck in her throat. Her face grew ten shades paler.

Something had changed.

The Toadies were in trouble. 
