ch3.

"And what are you?" The Fervent One craned her neck to see within the trenchcoated figure. It walked up to the bottom of the pile and stopped. He was a tall man with a dark brown fedora. A man in his later years, his brow twisted in thought. They could see his sad eyes almost whimpering at them.

"How much longer-" his voice spoke under the fedora, his hands reaching into his pockets. "do you think you'll stay on my spot?"

"Your spot?"

"Yea, right where you are."

"Are you," The Ephemeral One gasped, "a Toadie?"

The trenchcoated man let out a deep rasping laugh. His jaw drew wide as the two watched on with question marks all over their faces. He pulled out a toothpick and placed it carefully in his mouth and called up loud to them. 

"I'm Detective Smothersworth. And no, nothing like that. Good one though, I'm almost flattered."

The Fervent One's eyes were at half mast, her mind still wading in gin. "Smothersworth is... What, a Polish name?"

He didn't answer. She continued.

"You come here often detective, to sit on a hill of aliens?" Both girls giggled until a few of their hiccups cut them off.

"Actually, once every two weeks. I lie face up right where you-"

The Ephemeral One's face cracked, and the two women exploded in laughter brought to the brink of tears. The detective waited patiently and scanned the cloudy sky. Once they died down he spoke to the moon, kicking at the concrete.

"I've lived here all my life. I love this city. But it damn well disturbs me that there's a mystery all around us and no one cares to solve it.

You know they inspired me to become a detective? The Toadies. I've been chasing them for at least ten years now between cases. I must have interviewed over a hundred people over the years trying to find answers.

So If you want to know what a Toadie is like, what it really is, you have to think like one. You have to be like one. Once a month I lie there, on the top. To feel the victim. To feel their pain."

The Ephemeral One's head suddenly began to pang and she pushed at her temples. But the detective's words surfaced above the aching. She bit her lip mulling over the detective's speech like sour candy. She mouthed his last words, "to feel their pain." They twisted and embraced her tongue before she lost them as they slid out between her lips.

"I heard you both. You want to know what's happening to them, right? They've been and still are my obsession." He shook his head at one of The Toadie's faces. "I'm not sure how long they'll last honestly. They need all the help they can get."

Leaning into The Fervent One, The Ephemeral One whispered "What if he really knows something?"

They both glanced back at the Detective. He smiled up at them, putting his hands in his pockets.

"We don't even know if he's really Polish." The Fervent One said loudly, sneering at him.

Ignoring her, "Detective..." The Ephemeral One called to him as she carefully climbed down. Her head still trying to bail out the night's gin and tonics. After touching the ground she adjusted her skirt and faced him. His face as rough with pocks, beard hair and a scar under his left ear.

"My name is The Ephemeral One. What is so special about them? Do you know who they are? what's happening to them now?"

"Ah a code name. You're one of the Toadie activists, am I right? I've met so many of you I thought I met them all. No, I don't know everything. The same mysteries are unsolved. And no, I don't have many more answers than you do. But."

"But?"

With a flick of his wrist his unused toothpick flew behind him.

"But I'm about to have a breakthrough."

"Please." her eyes opened wide, "If you know something-"

"I know someone sitting on a mountain of information."

"What do they know about The Toadies?" She gasped.

"He knows enough to make them more interesting."

The Fervent One appeared next to her The Ephemeral One and tugged at her arm. "We don't have the patience and we're DEFINITELY not into drama, Professor Sluttersworth."

The detective squinted, "Patience?" He huffed, wiping his cheek. "Then I guess I made a mistake that you were serious about them."

The Ephemeral One roughly herself from her friend's arm, her eyes narrowing at her. "We're serious! We need to know what's going on."

The detective opened his mouth but stopped himself only to sigh. He pulled out his wallet and fanned out two letterpressed business cards. The Ephemeral One took one but The Fervent One only scoffed at them.

"Again, Detective Smothersworth. When you want to share information without any reservations, let me know." He turned around, slowly disappearing down the street.

"You don't want to take your nap at the top?" The Fervent One yelled out at him. The Ephemeral One gave her a jab in the ribs.

The detective stopped just before disappearing down the block. "I'll take a rain check tonight. Hey, you know why they're in a heap like that?" It's because they've all been thrown out. And someone forgot to clean them up."

Once was out of sight, The Ephemeral One's face flushed. she turned to The Fervent One, who  smirked at her, "What a jerk right?".

"What the hell was that?!"

"Trust me, I know jerks. That guy was a solid jerk. He's a damn creepy guy. Probably criminally insane."

"Clinically insane." The Ephemeral One corrected.

"That too, I'm sure. No man like that has anything good to say."

"What if he does?! I thought you'd be more excited about this? We've been waiting for someone to acknowledge them. What if he really knew something?"

The Fervent One waved her finger in front of her, "He's a liar. Trust me. Besides you, I only know liars. Don't you see? If he really cared he'd be a conservist like us! But he's not. He's probably just a perv. Definitely a perv." 




Later, The Ephemeral One sat on her couch waiting for the sun to come up. After a gallon of water, an aspirin and her headache finally clear, she couldn't sleep. Her eyes were wide open, staring into the darkness. She closed them, massaging and watching the dark blurs exploding under her lids.

She knew she was tired, but still grabbed at her purse. The detective's card only had his name and number on it. Her fingers trailed over his title, feeling the grooves in the letters. She thought of wedding invitations, something so formal it felt fake. But the wedding were real, she thought.

The was no ringtone after she dialed his number. Immediately after she put the phone to her ear, she heard him answer.
