With a mug of spiked cocoa in hand and a blanket on his lap, Detective Smothersworth waited for the call curled up with a good book. He had on some "Greatest Jazz Hits" record, knowing full well it was one he’d usually nod off to. But he knew tonight was going to be different. On instinct, the phone barely chirped once before he picked it up.

"Detective?" The Ephemeral One asked with a slight tremor in her voice.

"You're up late, aren’t you?" He chuckled, giving her time to answer. But the pause sat between them, looking bored. After it slowly got to him he followed with,  "What do you know about them?"

"I'm not a suspect in one of your cases Detective, please don't treat me like one."

"When you call me so late Ms.-, may I call you by your name?"

"No, no you can't." said The Ephemeral One. "That's not how it works."

The Detective let out a long drawn out sigh, "not how it works."

The Ephemeral One could hear his hand scratching his thick stubble. "Then please, go ahead. Tell me how this 'works'."

She leaned back on the couch, her eyes closing . Before she could think of a reply he rescinded "I know you’re hesitant to say anything, after being part of a group for so long. But this has been my life’s work.”

"I called because you believe in them, Detective..." She inspected his card again "...Smotherworth."

He stretched in his chair and yawned. "The Ephemeral One, yes of course. Listen, if we share information then maybe we can finally just figure this all out. We have to trust each other." 

"I'm not breaking any promises to my friends." The Ephemeral One's voice shrank in the receiver, btu she snapped back quickly, "I think we're done here.”

He could still feel her presence on the other side of the line, her breathing barely there, like a ghost. "Wait!” He shouted. He bolted upright, his blanket thrown limp to the floor. "Wait. I care. I care a lot. I'm not going to lie to you. I need to know what happened to them. It's almost a curse the way this is going." He walked to the window and parted the blinds looking out into the dark alley below.

"I know a man. I've been tracking him for a number of years. He's finally willing to talk. This man is a secret in himself. And it’s a dangerous mission too. He claims to have seen the first pile."

A quick gasp came from the static abyss "... The first pile? I thought that was in New York?"

"No. If you want to come I can bring you. But after that we need to cooperate. I need to crack this case. I can't die until I do. You understand, don't you?"

...

There was a knock at the door, and after undoing three locks The Ephemeral One creaked it open slowly to see The Ferverent One with a raised eyebrow and a deadpan face. Unlatching the chain, she asked her. "What?"

"Do you have anything to eat? Something salty?"

"You can help yourself to anything in the kitchen. I think I have some diet crackers left or something."

“Diet crack...”

The Ferverent One's voice trailed off as she surveyed what looked like the aftermath of a struggle. The Pictures and papers were exploded all over the floor. The pictures featured a young redhead with a heavily freckled face centered in the middle standing with her family in front of a pile. The story continued until suddenly she stood alone, her face shrunken and her glasses with thicker frames. Each picture was marked with the date, the time and two numbers. The documents were charts, graphs, lists and drawings 

“Are these longitude and latitudes?"

The Ephemeral One sat down among the mess and started thumbing through the pages "Yea, I gave up documenting them that way after fifteen years. It was a hassle anyway. No patterns or anything. I thought they'd at least make up a crop circle looking thing or something."

The Ephemeral One’s eyes wandered the room and started flipping through receipts. She carefully bunched some of the papers together then heaved them back onto the shelf, "For all he knows I'm just an enthusiast. I don’t think I have anything to share with him."

"Your body, stupid. He wants your bod. He's old and a loser and he'll do anything to get it. Or maybe the guy is bored? He wants some action in his life, whatever that looks like. It kind of narrows it down."

The Ephemeral One’s eyes widened, looking up. "You think?"

"You can't be too sure.” The Ferverent One said, pointing her finger up accusingly. She shuffled over to the kitchen yelling, "Is this why you come over to my place usually?"

"What would you have thought if before going out we just swung by my cave of creepy Toadie documents?" The Ephemeral One rubbed her forehead, "You think I'm obsessed, don't you?"

The Ferverent One came around with a bowl chicken salad. She perched herself on a swivel bar chair in front of the living room.

"First step forward is acceptance." She munched. "Look, I don't think you're crazy. But you have to admit none of this is normal. And following that guy is too risky."

The Ephemeral sat crossed legged. She held her head in her hands and blew a loud raspberry.

"I'm the first to admit that! What this looks like... It looks Like I’m crazy. But you know, when I was growing up The Toadies were just there. Everywhere. And for a while people cared, and the whole world was in it together.

Then they didn't care. And that was it. They didn’t care a lot. They started using them for skateboarding ramps! I couldn't believe it. And after my family were gone, only The Toadies stayed.

But if they are alive or dead, to me it doesn't matter. In the end I'm as alone as they are. They’re basically the reason I became an accountant."

The Ferverent One gestured with her fork to stop, "I’m so sorry your parents passed away in the middle of all of this."

The Ephemeral One lifted her head, eyeing her friend, "No, they moved to Oregon."

Putting down her salad, The Ferverent One pushed aside the, ahem, piles of documents and scooted next to her friend. She wrapped an arm her around her and held her close.

"You have us. You have me, Sandy and Ian-"

"Lian!" The Ephemeral One snapped.

"Dumbest alias I've ever heard." The Ferverent One shook her head. "Listen, you don't know what this guy wants."

“He may be a maniac but I need to go. I need to find out what that detective knows. And I need you to come with me.”

“Wait, to where?”

“To Iceland.” The Ephemeral One held her friend’s hand tightly, “Please?”



