Chapter 1
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Chapter 4

This is the next chapter of another novel I’m working on tentatively titled The Toadies Erupt: A story of Scientific Fiction. This chapter is almost stand alone but some things about the Toadies won’t make sense unless you read the previous chapters.

=================

An alarm went off an hour before dawn in a slightly immodest house bordering the edge of a California desert. A slow hairy army stopped the beeping within a few seconds.

The General Guy opened his eyes, feeling the full weight of how groggy he was. He looked over to his wife. She hummed, nuzzling deeper into her pillow. He took in a deep breath before fighting his groggy body to get up and take it to the bathroom, and succeeded. He always succeeded at everything.

He studied himself in the mirror; a droopy face with greying skin soon to sag lower. “Damnit...” he mumbled.

He shaved the white whiskers that flustered at the edges of his lips until only a perfectly thick white caterpillar burrowed under his nose. For years he ran through the gambit of facial hair trends without satisfying results, so he decided on a classic look, one he kept up in memory of his father. He brushed his perfect teeth and combed what was left of his silver hair.

His uniform was covered in so many medals they flooded past his chest, down the stomach, then wrapping around his back. More were vomited carefully all over his pants so he could still walk without them digging into his legs. No hat, he couldn’t tolerate a hat.

He arrived downstairs to find his coffee machine chiming, ready with a piping hot pot. He took his place in the dark at the kitchen table and sipped, sighing with frustration. His dog, a broody old tired mutt, moseyed over to him for a morning scratch. He pet it roughly on the head without looking at it, a long rehearsed gesture. He sipped at his coffee, listening for signs of any other life outside at that hour, but there was none.

Soon, a black car carefully pulled into his driveway, barely making a sound crunching the gravel. The General Guy had the engine of the car modified to be as silent as possible, and was always as lubricated as a fish. Maybe even two fish. The General Guy clenched his fists as he exited his home, mumbling to himself. His dog slumbed back over to its corner to sleep. 

He sat with his arms folded. He knew every building, every street and every shadow on his way. But that day he was watching something else, something deep in his mind. He paid no attention to the driver, who stayed silent the entire drive avoiding eye contact when he looked in the rearview mirror. 

When he finally arrived at the heavily fortified facility he began grinding his teeth. The car moved slowly between the hidden mines, the gun turrets and the apprehensive guards. With the car at a standstill he wiped his face and slammed the car door behind him, rolling his eyes at the saluting guards.

Once inside, he went through the motions of every key carded and eye-dentificated room, ignoring the many morning waves and greetings that passed him. His eyes saw through the massive steel doors ahead to the room at the very end, the massive domed marvel that housed science and technology years ahead of the world outside’s. Better, faster, smaller computers. Holograms. Better Holograms. Better microscopes. Observing tinier things. Better LCDs. Curvier. Better sinks. Marble mostly. Marbley. Better phones. All wireless and very flat.

The final doors slid open to reveal a massive room with a single chair in the middle. The cold and crisp air carried no odor. Far at the perimeter of the room wer one hundred soldiers of varying ranks and introverted scientists specialized in a variety of fields. Every so often one of their etching pens or tiny claps from their keyboards echoed with little skitters, like the sound of insects or mice escaping into the walls.

The General Guy walked solemnly to the center, the clicking of his boots conquering the room, and sat back. He leaned into the leather headrest in the curved metallic chair armed with cup holders, massage buttons and several foot-rest levers. Some for each foot at different heights, some for both of them together. He stared into the ceiling above him covered in thousands of monitors. They were all off, reflecting tiny mustached faces back at him. He snarled at them, blew a raspberry, then rubbed his temples with his wrists. With the push of a button a chamber by The General Guy’s foot revealed a box of Cubans, a bag of tobacco and a pipe. He picked up the pipe, a marbled ivory with a mahogany handle, along with a box of toothpicks.

There was only so much he could do, he thought, as he dug into the gunk inside the pipe. How could he hide his wrinkled brow, act calm, hold back from destroying what he had in his hands. It took all his energy.

The door at one far end of the room opened to reveal a barrel chested man. He was broad shouldered with muscles ready to burst through his uniform. He assessed the room until he saw The General Guy’s figure, sulking and distracted. He saluted and marched over. The General Guy sighed deeply.

“Sir!” He clicked his heels tightly together and stood rigid.

“Nickerson.” The General Guy mumbled under his breath.

“Today’s news, General.”

In an instant, the hundreds of monitors exploded with images of newspapers, security cameras, television shows, prisoner confessions, paged through confidential documents and hooded informants. They altogether poured a grand cacophony at full volume. The General Guy barely took a quick glance at a cluster of displays in a corner before pressing a mute button on the arm of the chair, and suddenly it was all silent again. He returned to scraping and tapping his pipe. Bits of burnt tobacco escaped to the floor in a tiny mess.

The Lieutenant stood for a few moments watching the General Guy, waiting for an order. The General Guy shifted, then held his head in his hands. The room was still.

“Nickerson.” The General Guy muttered, “Do you know what an idiot is?”

"Yessir! A person of low intelligence sir!" Lieutenant Nickerson bellowed.

The General guy stood up and approached the Lieutenant in a slow stride. Walkedy walkedy. All of the soldiers and scientists, while pretending to work, held their breath. Altogether they attempted to nonchalantly look over their shoulders.

The General guy stopped directly in front of the Lieutenant. He stood stone still, his back straight with eyes obediently locked on the General Guy’s. Suddenly The General Guy's face was set ablaze exploding in a deep beat red starting from his nose. The Lieutenant tried to hide his shock when The General Guy’s hands came down against the sides of his head with two loud smacks. The General Guy’s eyes dug deep into him, and the Lieutenant would forever remember the deep creases that morphed The General Guy into an unrecognizable angry monster.

All of the subordinates in their periphery, who were before only half engaged in the drama, jumped at the thunder that the claps echoed above them, feeling them heavy on their own faces too.

“You idiot! You know NOTHING! You are a true idiot! Even your head is a STUPID HEAD! Your head is an IDIOT!” 

The room hollered back deep echoes into the hearts of all the silent cowering onlookers. The Lieutenant yelled back, “Sir, yessir!” even though he couldn't hear him since his ears were covered.

“An Idiot! An idiot!” The General Guy hollored again and again. The General guy clasped the Lieutenant's skull tighter, growling in a fit until he threw him back, and they both stumbled.

“Do you know what the law of idiots is, Lieutenant?”

The Lieutenant regained his balance and decided to focus on the General guy’s shoes instead of his face. “No sir, no!” He replied in a loud voice.

The General guy began pacing, his face regaining its original pink and saggy cheer. “It’s a law of the ages. The punic wars. The World Wars. The Bay of Pigs. The Illiad. The Brothers Karamosov. The Dynasty Soap Opera... It screams out, blood all over every major story in the known and unknown universes. Do you understand Nickerson?”

“Sir yessir!”

“No, you don’t. The law is:

The greater the situation, the bigger, in every bit of the colossal mess and odds, the idiot.


There is always a _just_ sanity in direct conflict with the biggest idiots. It’s a law greater than gravity and more sincere than a crying orphan baby getting carried down a river in a wicker basket. Do you know why that is Nickerson?”

“No, sir, I do not know sir!”

“Any of you morons?” The General Guy gestured to the quiet onlookers. They were taken aback, and the room sounded with their swallows and gulps of fear. "BECAUSE YOU'RE ALL IDIOTS!" the room shook as he shouted to the heavens. He took a few deep breaths to calm himself, then began pacing in a large circle around the Lieutenant. "Do you understand, all of you, that we are AT WAR with these stupid aliens. Correct, Nickerson?”

“Yessir Toadies Sir!” Lieutenant Nickerson shouted, still pock marked with beads of sweat and saliva.  It was impossible to discern between the sweat on his face and the spittle that flew with each bark from The General Guy.

"Toadies." The General muttered, tapping his leg. "Toadies. Nickerson, you have no idea where we were. Who we were. We were on top of the world. We were the single emperor of the world. When America invaded a country we _always_ got first dibs. We took anything we wanted in the spirit of aliens. For the sake of discovery, as we called it. But when we were breaking bone china after our tenth helping of caviar and whale bone marrow, or if we had to mow down a town, we all knew what it was really about. It was all about Power. It still is. And none of you understand that. But _I_ haven't gotten this far forgetting who my real enemy is."

He looked up at the screens and spat “Garbage!” at them, then knocked his pipe off his metallic chair to the floor. His hands slipped behind his back, and he puffed up his chest, "That is not the news. WE used to make the news. WE are the news. We have aliens lying all over the entire planet and we are just twiddling our thumbs? These aliens are taking advantage of us."

One small voice spoke up from the other end of the room, "Sir, if I may. We haven't found anything conclusive-"

"You may not, Sternheimer! Your excuses are weaker than my bladder! Twenty years?! And you haven't found anything?! This is not a carnival! I am not having fun here!"

The General Guy began stabbing his finger in the air, “I will not be The Idiot! We are at WAR with these aliens, and WE WILL WIN THIS WAR. Do you hear me?!”

Everyone remained motionless save the few shaking scientists in the corners, trying to hide their sobs.

“I’m sick of standing on the sidelines. We have forgotten how to fight. How to win. We have trapped ourselves in this idiot room and have all become idiots.”

The General Guy approached Lieutenant Nickerson again, putting his hand on his shoulder, “Tell the president we are at war and to make an excuse to the public. This is an emergency. We’re either going to utilize these aliens, or we’re going to destroy them.” Then General Guy picked up his pipe and sat down. 

After a few moments’ pause, Lieutenant Nickerson asked quietly, “What about the DMV’s sir?”

“I could care less about them. I don’t drive.”
