Toadies

In another galaxy, beyond all belief, where stars exist beyond the outer reaches of stars themselves, lies the unimaginable. If you can imagine it it's not there. Nope. The only light there is darkness. And the only darkness, is Toadies.



As the sun set that fateful July over the city, the people of it slowly set out on their daily dinner dates, complaining children, overtime on the thirty third floor, counting the money they begged for all day, commute home and night laundry.

But something suspicious was in the air. Something irreconcilable, something vicious or wondrous. All of humanity felt it that sundown. They looked at eachother, not sure what to say. They didn't know how to say it but the hopefuls and the tightened and the indifferent all knew, they were finally coming. No, they were finally here.

Although witness accounts of the first toadies vary wildly, the most commonly agreed upon account was the pile at the intersection of twentieth and first avenue. Traffic ground to a halt when a driver noticed he couldn't enter the intersection. What appeared to be a large pile of hulking masses sat in the center motionless.

The driver said he got out of the car. A few passerbys stopped and stared at the large pile. At least fifteen things were piled on top of eachother. The driver approached the pile very slowly. He kicked the pile, but nothing moved. He kicked them again, but it was like he was kicking a dead body. BUt they were clearly not dead bodies. Their skin, their faces, everything about the things in the pile screamed aliens.

Approximately twenty minutes later, someone called the police. Another called an ambulance. But the city's services were too busy with the many piles appearing all across the city. Every ten blocks a pile showed up in an intersection. People were confused and didn't know what to do.

So soon the national guard was called, then the S.W.A.T teams, then the CIA, then the FBI, etc. One of them shot a body, then many did, not understanding if they were threats or peaceful. But nothing happened. They sat there, stiff.


In the year twenty twenty thirty teen, they erupted. It was the later teens so it was far worse than the normal teens. Nothing could have prepared the earth from the disasterous consequences that the Toadies befell on it.

People were in panic from every which way. They were drowned in mixed emotions. Some wanted to protect the Toadies, others simply wanted to burn them. Others wanted them destroyed forever. Some just wanted them out of the way.

But there was no use. They were here.














But they were present on a mass scale. The piles appeared mostly in urban areas. They were rarer outside in the suburbs, and still rarer in forests and mountains. 

At first scientists felt like a new era had dawned. Aliens at last! When they couldn't bring them to their labs they brought their labs to the intersections and rooftops. But son enough they realized that these aliens were not alive or dead. Nothing about them made scientific sense. The jumble of cels that made up their bodies were not only incomprehensible but reprehensible. Their trenchcoats looked like pleather. 

The conspiracy theorists went nuts. Suddenly all their theories were correct. They put on their tin hats with pride and stood on top of the piles proud, smiling and posing for each picture taken.

But, after a few months, it was apparent no celebration was necessary. The piles remained all over cities because they couldn't be removed. Every time someoen removed one of the alien bodies, the second they looked away the body was back on the pile. Scientists found nothing significant on them. Their skin, their clothing, everything was deemed irrelevant or uninteresting to their studies.



Around the world scientists, cultists, politicians, regular people... They all grew disappointed, even bored. These aliens did nothing. These were not the aliens they were looking for.

And there they remained, blocking traffic and obstructing views in parks. The department of motor vehicles had to adjust their road rules to drive around them. 

A few groups of sympathizers remained, no more than a thousand people spread across the globe. Their cause was hard fought because they could neither prove or disprove that spitting, hitting or disturbing any of the Toadies was harming them. Many people thought of them as annoying, so they took their meetings wherever they could. They held them in bunkers, in quiet rooms at the library or online.

A small meeting of three congregated at exactly 11:03 am, Saturday April 20th 2022 in Brooklyn. For security no one gave out their names, but attendance was rattled off.

"Sandy,
Lian,
The Ephemerent One." said The Ephemerent One. She drew a smiley face in the box next to each name.

"What are the list of topics?" Sandy sighed. The three sat in her son's treehouse while he was away with his friends under the guise that the three wanted a bit of a view while playing bridge. It was a flimsy argument, but Sandy's son and husband were both worried about her lack of hobbies and antisocial lifestyle, so they didn't pry too much.

"I want to talk about the ones on Bond st." Lian said, looking over pages of notes. "I was investigating it two weeks ago and noticed they were very wet so I wiped them down."

"What did you wipe them with?" The Ephemerent One waited. 

"Well, I started with a small towel but I guess that wasn't enough so I used a bath towel."

"What were the colors of both towels?" The Ephemerent One asked again, frantically scribbling.

"The small towel was a beige hand towel. The bath towel, that had a picture of a pands on it."

"... Panda... Like in a bamboo forest?"

"Ah, no just like a Panda and the background was yellow, like on a beach I guess? I think there was an ocean behind it."

"Ok got it."

"Why did you wipe them, don't they get wet all the time?" Sandy had her legs curled up to her chest. The only sound was The Ephemerant One's note taking.

"I had this feeling, like they needed to be dry... I don't know I felt bad I guess. If my mother, if it were me, and it just rained, I'd want to be wiped."

"But does that kind of intefere with their solitude and humbled existence?" The Ephemerent one suggested.

"Yea, I thought of that too. But they have withstood so much weather problems, people problems too... I thought they wouldn't mind, maybe appreciate me lending them a hand."

The three nodded solemnly in agreement.



















