


===============


"It's like beating a dead horse, but no consequences for teh original act! Why would anyone allow such brutality in teh first place and then continue well after death?!"

The Fervent one raised an eyebrow, and the detective raised his. They stared until it was awkward, with the wind blowing in their faces as they blinked.

"Why do you think they are here?" The ephemeral one asked, breaking teh silence. The three watched the gulls circling over a pile of upcoming toadies jutting out of the ocean. Some gulls landed on them, others picked at their jackets suspiciously as they laid there lifeless.

The ferevent one smacked her lips and ran her fingers through her hair. "I'm seriously worried. They cam eall the way here for God knows what... To live in peace? But they are in terrible trouble now it's horrific."

The indirectly cursing detective sucked on his vape and blew, taking a hard look at the pile. "The dystopia we all wanted to avoid. The one we chose to ignore. It's incarnated through them, the sorry folk that are slowly devouring our hearts."

They could hear a toadie snore and another cough luggiley. A few more piles appeared on the horizo and teh ship sounded a thounderous call. In a few minutes the fog lifted and there they saw the grass covered roofs. They approached a harbor so small it probably had its fair share of personal grudges ((small person, big ego joke?)).



=========

The isles bays were red with blood. The Faroe Isles slaughtered tons of whales and porpoises. They loved it, and most of them couldn't live without porpoise (purpose).


============

They watched one pile closely. It was disturbing already and quite obvious.. The Toadies were getting worse. "it's sad." said The Ephemeral One.

"Its kind of gross." said The Fervent One.

============

Detective, following no logic: "We have to follow this to its logical conclusion."