A man woke up. He shaved, put on his uniform tight over his guy. Put on his hat. Got in his car. Drove to 





"Good morning General." A short man with waspy hair toted behind him.

"Good morning private." The General Guy mumbled.

"Out of coffee again. I can fill the machine?" The private asked the general, smiling.

"Budget cuts budget cuts budgets cuts." The general mumbled as he put his cup in the sink.




***

The General Guy sunk in his chair. "Did a bunch of yahoos break into area fifty one and have a binger again?"

"Those Flip flaps..." The General Guy muttered.

***

The two lieutenants looked at each other, one said, "I don't think that one works, sir."

The General Guy took an about face and pointed a rolled up newspaper the nearest Lieutenant's chest, "That's what's wrong with this country! Everything is broken!"

"Do you remember the good old days private? When we just walked into the scorched earth, or the beautiful rows of one hundred percent American cornfields covered in crop circles?"

The General Guy took off his hat, combing his fingers through what was left of his hair, "Or when we'd invade other countries? Sometimes we got first dibs! It was incredible." he stared off into the skylight as his words trailed off, dying in the cold air conditioned room.

He reached under his chair and took out a case, looked inside it, then threw it sharply to the ground and he screamed, "Even the damn cigar box is empty!"



He stopped pacing and pointed around the room. "Are we done?!"

He walked up to a stiff lieutenant, "Are we done?!"

Then to a private visibly shaking, "Are we done?", spit flying in his face.

The General Guy took a deep breath and sat back down in his chair. His hat fell to the floor. He held his head in his hands bent over, trying to hold back his tears. But they appeared in front of him on the white lynolium. 

"Are we done?" He sobbed.

***

"The Toadies..."




