Hidden Cities







Maybe bad guy whispering in the woods








---------

Zain and the hidden city



"Are you wizards?!"



"Wiztards? Is that a thing in the byside? I'm not aware of it actually."



-----



People are walking on the sides with a trolley or something in the middle.



------



Joceline's Dad's name:



Sordniche Husk?

Mr. Husk is fine



He doesnt know latest names so names his daughter Jocerine instead?







------



Maybe dad works at power plant and gets his electricity for free, so Joceline's dad wants free electricity.



-----



Zain knows all about extinct birds and stuff. So he's surprised they eat extinct pigeons.









----















"This is in, stout you throw out ((melt down??))"



-----





The entire city rumbled and bustled. Many gears moved and doors slid by in quick succession as they moved about. Doors slid by his right and left and people popped out and walked immediately in front of him, or snuck behind him in a hurry. People walked on the ceilings above him, some with backpacks. Some had babies right side up in their backs with the carrier upside down. They moved swiftly, almost in eerie quiet. But it was impossible, due to the small space and narrowness, not to bump into a pipe, or hit a door, or kick a can.





------



Living in the bridge pillars



Richer people have more space



Worst insult: "a waste of space."



-----



I dont know ---> Aiunno



Name: Budhnell

Bushnell

-------



Bad guy name: Pompous Grandeur



"The city is already practically bankrupt where do you think the money will come from?"



"You're a brilliant man mr. Mayor. I think you'll find a way."



----





Main bad guy is trying to ransom new york with brown outs (eventually black outs) for money. Could reveal underground, exposing everyone and calling it a humanitarian crisis.



----



Communicate through mikes and shortwave radio.



------



"Of course it's not enough! Why would it ever be enough?"



"Because you get stuff and then you have it?" Zain asked.



"But then it chips, or it's old and you want another one."











----------







Zain looked up and there was a girl. She had a huge yellow sweater on that said "1947 Wheeties", long straight black hair, a blue patched jean skirt and leather boots. But the thing that struck Zain were her very thick round glasses. And she was holding Zain's ruler.

"Hey!" Zain screamed. He stuffed his backpack as quick as he could and took off running after the girl.

She flew around a corner in a hurry and zain was only two seconds behind her. But when He turned the corner, the girl had vanished completely. It was just an empty sidewalk, with absolutely no one around.


Zain couldnt believe he was going to lose his grandmother's ruler. He had never been robbed before, and was still in a panic. He walked a few feet ahead of him and noticed something odd.

On a white brick wall, just like any other wall, but it looked like it was flapping just a bit back and fourth. Curious, he pushed it. And instead of a rock hard surface, he fell right into the wall.

Zain didn't really think about where he was, or what he was doing, or how dark it was. All he cared about wad his ruler. And he follow what he thought was the girl's breathing. First he was crawling through a small tunnel, then he stood upright in a very narrow wooden cave.

He heard a door slam and lock, and as he turned a corner he saw it. The door and fit within the walls cracks; it was crooked and as narrow as his body. There was no knob, only a very large key hole. It looked really old, and was covered in English letters that formed nonesense words. He took no time to bang on the door, "Give me back my ruler you theif!"

He heard some scuffle inside, like something moving around in a panic. Something clicked and a light turned on. In tke keyhole he could see a magnified eye looking back at him. (eye hole on doors have fisheyes or types of inverted glass)

"No." The girl's voice said. It sounded more like 'Nao', a bizarre accent.

"Yes! Yuo have to give that back! I know where you live!"

"But I ne~ed it!"

"You can't just steal things you need!"

But there was a pause, and the light inside shut off and the girl's eye was no longer looking out at him.

"I'm going to come back and bring someone to break your door in."

"How did you get in here anyway?"

"Through the wall, just like you."

There was another pause, then a scrambling. She unlocked the door and it opened, but she pushed Zain out of the way as she shut it. She was hurried holding a sack. Instead of glasses she wore huge goggles with lights on their sides. She rushed back up the tunnel. "You're in big trouble." She yelled back.

"Hey wait!" Zain yelled, following her back.

The girl pulled out a rusty paint scraper and dipped it into some liquid from a jar and covered the crack the wall had. It sealed in and was completely dark with 

"What's so important about your stupid ruler?" The girl asked, scrapping the wall even while it was smooth.

"It's not stupid. I wouldn't tell you anyway. Where is it? And How am I suposed to get out now? And who are you?"

The girl turned around and she had a sad angry face. "I'm so sorry." She said quietly, "this is my fault."

((Does sealant seal itself or does she have to seal it back?))







----------

Zain tries to runaway, falling down trap doors.







-----













-----





"Well, what would you rather we do?" Mr. T asked indifferently.













------



A city within a city.



"You know all the people you don't recognize walking in the hallways, downstairs, waiting outside your house? Or weird noises you cant explain? Theres always an explanation, and now you know."



Mole people wear goggles and used clothes. A long time ago they made a deal to pay no rent in order to keep fixing internal stuff. But places are getting smaller these days, so they do water shortages and blackouts.







They try to make space work everywhere.



E.g. Stairs as table also as neighbour's stairs (walks upside down)