Ch1. The City

The sounds kept Zain awake, night after night as long as he could remember. He heard the racket on the floor below. He listened uneasily to the noises in the attic. He heard the banging of the pipes deep within the walls. Zain had a hard time sleeping through all of it, and only until 1 or 2 a.m. after his father and uncle were home from the power plant did he fall asleep.

"This apartment is glamorous~!!" his mother exclaimed blankly.

"Class." His father said with a wink.

 The truth he knew was that his parents couldn't afford to move and barely made rent as it was. He only knew that because he heard them aruging about it once a week late into the night. 

"The building is too old." his mother would tell him over breakfast.

"But just because things are old doesn't mean they have to creak? Does the building manager know?"

"The building may be old Zain it's not haunted or filled with monsters." His dad smiled, happily but sternly, "I know it's a lot,"

Zain sighed a "Ok." But it was most not ok.

"Things rot and rust and then they don't work." His father chimed in, "some things don't work right anymore and then they do stuff you don't expect. You'll get used to them I promise." 

The bags under his father's eyes were visible reminders of the daily suffering. Zain's uncle sat on the other end of the table and nodded with a smile.

"What if I don't?" Zain asked, seriously. But his father shrugged happily, "You'll get used to them" he winked, "I promise."

Zain thought that was a weird promise for a father to make since his Dad had no control over something like that.

He was always tired. Too tired to stay awake in school, where he'd fall asleep in his morning classes and then nod off in front of the principle's office. Too tired to do prove if he was even any good at gym. 

Zain's mother worked at a laundromat six days a week. His father and uncle worked daily at the Harlem power plant. So when the school tried to call home there was no answer, and when they tried to call work they hung up immediately because they were worried about the percussions of taking personal calls.

The summers when he had school off were worse. Because of the heat he'd open the windows at night, and combined with the building noises he'd hear the city outside. The car screeches and shouts from the people outside were louder than ever. It was all very frustrating.

Until the pigeon flew into Zain's room.

It wasn't like any of the pigeons he'd seen in teh city. Those were rough around the edges with greys, blues and green mashed onto their feathers. A blurry brilliant orange that was the Pigeon's stomach was the first thing Zain saw when it landed on his bed. Even though Zain was awake, It scared him enough to jump onto the floor. It trotted around his bed without a fuss with cool blue sleek feathers, watching him.

They were so smooth it looked like it could have been groomed, which Zain thought was ridiculous. He took a step closer and tried to shoo it away, but it remained there, pecking a bit at his blanket, giving off a gentle coo.

"What are you?" He asked it. "Are you a New York pigeon? A Brooklyn Pigeon?"

The pigeon looked back at him, bending its head a few different ways and shook. They watched each other for a few minutes until the pigeon lost interest, dug its beak into its feathers and nodded off.

From that day in 1976 Zain left his window open all summer long into the fall. He put bits of crumbs on the windowsill. And while not everyday, the pigeon came often enough to peck and roost on the edge of his bed. Something in Zain felt a bit more comfortable, and while not early, something pulled him into his dreams a little bit earlier than before. And they snoozed together until teh end of the summer.