Ch2. The Pigeon

Zain started school and it was a horrific disaster. The teacher introduced him as an alien to the class. Kids stared at him until he took his seat in the back, then they ignored him.

But a blonde boy whispered "What kind of name is Zain anyway? Is it a MAFIA name? Is your family in THE MAFIA?!"

"No they're not in the mafia..." Zain whispered back, trying to ignore him.

"That's what ALL MAFIA FAMILIES SAY." another boy with black hair over his ears snapped.

"Yea," said the blonde kid, "are they in JAIL?"

"YOUR FACE IS IN THE MAFIA!" Zain yelled.

"Zain!" yelled the teacher, "have you started causing trouble already?!"

But when the school tried to call home there was no answer, and when they tried to call work they hung up immediately because they were worried about the repercussions of taking personal calls. So Zain sat in front of teh principal's office, staring at the cieling, staring at the desk, until teh principal let him off with a finger wag warning.

Zain trotted back, yawning, hating his new school already.












...

He met up with his mom at the Laundromat and she asked him how his day was. "Fine" he said.

It is funny, Zain thought, how things are usually never fine when people say they are fine.

"Anything happen today? Did you meet any new friends?"

"Not yet." Zain watched as his mother folded clothes, brushed lint and ironed away at pants. He began to help her, "Oh thank you dear."


...

Then a pigeon flew into Zain's room.

It wasn't like any of the pigeons he'd seen in the city. Those were rough around the edges with greys, blues and green mashed onto their feathers. A blurry brilliant orange that was the Pigeon's stomach was the first thing Zain saw when it landed on his bed. Even though Zain was awake, It scared him enough to jump onto the floor. It trotted around his bed without a fuss with cool blue sleek feathers, watching him.

They were so smooth it looked like it could have been groomed, which Zain thought was ridiculous. He took a step closer and tried to shoo it away, but it remained there, pecking a bit at his blanket, giving off a gentle coo.

"What are you?" He asked it. "Are you a New York pigeon? A Brooklyn Pigeon?"

The pigeon looked back at him, bending its head a few different ways and shook. They watched each other for a few minutes until the pigeon lost interest, dug its beak into its feathers and nodded off.

From that day in 1976 Zain left his window open all summer long into the fall. He put bits of crumbs on the windowsill. And while not everyday, the pigeon came often enough to peck and roost on the edge of his bed. Something in Zain felt a bit more comfortable, and while not early, something pulled him into his dreams a little bit earlier than before. And they snoozed together until teh end of the summer.