Ch4. Inside the Husk house

One day heading home after class, Zain knelt down to tie his shoes. Putting his backpack down, He started until he noticed a shadow grow over him.

Zain looked up and there was a girl. She had a huge yellow sweater on that said "Schlitz 1937" in black, long straight black hair, a blue patched jean skirt and leather boots. But the thing that struck Zain were her very thick round glasses. And she was holding his ruler.

"Hey!" Zain screamed. He stuffed his backpack as quick as he could and took off running after the girl.

She flew around a corner in a hurry and zain was only two seconds behind her. But when He turned the corner, the girl had vanished completely. It was just an empty sidewalk, with absolutely no one around.

Zain couldnt believe he was going to lose his father's ruler. He had never been robbed before, and was still in a panic. He walked a few feet ahead of him and noticed something odd.

On a white brick wall, just like any other wall, but it looked like it was flapping just a bit back and fourth. Curious, he pushed it. And instead of a rock hard surface, he fell right into the wall.

Zain didn't really think about where he was, or what he was doing, or how dark it was. All he cared about wad his ruler. And he follow what he thought was the girl's breathing. First he was crawling through a small tunnel, then he stood upright in a very narrow wooden cave.

He heard a door slam and lock, and as he turned a corner he saw it. The door and fit within the walls cracks; it was crooked and as narrow as his body. There was no knob, only a very large key hole. It looked really old, and was covered in English letters that formed nonesense words. He took no time to bang on the door, "Give me back my ruler you theif!"

He heard some scuffle inside, like something moving around in a panic. Something clicked and a light turned on. In tke keyhole he could see a magnified eye looking back at him. (eye hole on doors have fisheyes or types of inverted glass)

"No." The girl's voice said. It sounded more like 'Nao', a bizarre accent.

"Yes! You have to give that back! I know where you live!"

"But I ne~ed it!"

"You can't just steal things you need!"

But there was a pause, and the light inside shut off and the girl's eye was no longer looking out at him.

"I'm going to come back and bring someone to break your door in."

"How did you get in here anyway?"

"Through the wall, just like you."

There was another pause, then a scrambling. She unlocked the door and it opened, but she pushed Zain out of the way as she shut it holding a sack rushing back up the tunnel.

"You're in big trouble." She yelled back.

"Hey wait!" Zain yelled, following her.

The girl pulled out a rusty paint scraper and dipped it into some clear liquid from a jar. She covered the crack the wall had and it sealed in and the tunnel turned to black. That was until two bright lights turned on next to the girl's goggles.

"What's so important about your stupid ruler?" The girl asked, scrapping the wall even while it was smooth.

"It's not stupid. I wouldn't tell you anyway. Where is it? And how am I suposed to ge- WHO ARE YOU?"

The girl turned around with a contorted angry face. "I'm sorry." She said quietly, "but I don't need your ruler. Well, I need it, but actually, I need your help." ANd she passed him and went down the tunnel.

Zain, understanding less about what was going on by the minute, tried to push the wall back to no avail. So he followed her before she was out of sight, feeling his way down the tunnel.

"Give me back my ruler."

"Shhhh! You'll have to be a bit quieter than that." The girl whispered quite loudly.































-------------------

He looked up, there was furniture on the ceiling, cabinets on the walls, picture frames.

"Who is this?" The man demanded, waving his hand in exageratted anger.

The girl didn't seem afraid, she smiled and uttered "He's just visiting Dad. He's gonna help us."

The brain gears ground and turned furiously in her father's head, "Joseline you didn-" But just then there was a knock. Zain couldn't quite place where, but he thought it might be coming from the ceiling.

"Dad!"

"No time to Dad!"

"Quick hide in the closet sir." Behind and above Zain a door opened, and the girl's father pulled what appeared to be some cranks and pulleys on the walls. Her father yelled, "Mr. FGgdor is that you?" and suddenly, the room began to spin slowly. Zain, startled, fell backwards into the closet, and before her father closed the door he peered in with a, "Don't say a word, it's bad for the silence." They locked it and could hear them walking on top of the door.

The closet began to shift with the rest of the place. He was flat on his back when it finally stopped. He heard a latch unlock and a few things unbuckle,

"Mr. FGgdor I wasn't expecting you."

"I wasn't expecting you, neither." a deep hollow voice spoke with a joy in it, "a package for you Mr. Husk. How are you Joseline? Not too dusty?"

"It hasn't been dusty at all around here." he heard the girl say. Zain tried to feel around the closet, but nothing felt closet like.

"Well not up in the fourty and fourties. I've been delivering all day there and they've had it practically pelting the dust bits."

"That's no good sir, no good. Joseline will mind herself that's for sure. I'll MAKE SURE of THAT." Mr. Husk spoke emphatically.

"Are you alright Mr. Husk?"

"Quite alright Mr. FGgdor, I was just in the middle of something. Please don't let me ruin your day with this idle chatter. Thank you for delivering it "

"Well I d-"

Zain heard a heavy lever grind something and the man's voice suddenly vanished. He turned and toppled over more clothes as the whole house rolled over. The doors opened up and Mr. Husk was looking at him.

"Well hel-" but before Mr. Husk could say another word there was a loud rhapping at the door. "Husk you flathead open up this door! The mayor wants to bash your head in!"

"What a welcome surprise Julius!!!"" Mr. Husk said, then  "No time for this now, back in the closet..." and he shut the door back on Zain, and in a moment the house creaked again but this time Zain held onto the back hook for his dear life. The closet door wasn't closed so a few clothes fell out and Zain found himself hanging on the ceiling, looking down at the two men with Joseline trying not to look paniced as she glanced up at him.

"Your house is a real mess Husk." Julius said in a scruffy cough.

"Julius, I can only live everyday by a sense of discovery- ah look! My trench coat!" Mr. Husk pulled one out from beneath him, looking not the least bit frazzled.

"The mayor will see you by five this afternoon, Husk. I hope you've been working."

Mr. Husk huffed out of his nose and looked over Julius, "I re-invent daily Julius. I suggest you re-invent yourself and stop acting like a broken record, knocking on my door daily. Seriously you're lucky I let you in here. I'll be there by six. Here have a crumpet, it's dale."

Julius was in fists as he treaded out the door, which almost nipped him as Mr. Husk turned the whole house again with a lever. Zain slowly got to his feet as it circled down. The coats kept sliding down as teh floor moved, and Joceline and Mr. Husk strode at a liaesurely pace, Mr. Husk didn't lay his eyes off of Zain while Joceline tried not to catch either of theirs.



















---


He glanced at Joseline, "I'm sorry MyboyZain. But what she did was super illegal and quite rude, even though she is right. We are in dire straights and we do need help, but I was hoping it wouldn't resort to this."

Zain asked, "Super illegal? Why?"

"Super illegal. They'd make us move closer to the center, interrogation, whatever."

"Whatever?"

Mr. Husk pulled some cranks, twisted a few knobs. The room started to move again, so they walked around, stepping over various buttons and things before stopping.

"Ok I will explain it. But it's ((a)) nasty business."

Mr. Husk and Joceline pulled on a few handles from the floor. Up came a table and three chairs, sliding out of slots. From a hole in on of the legs Mr. Husk pulled out a map. It was in white and blue and looked very old. The map was covered with tiny diagrams and writing. Mr. Husk had to detach a magnifying glass from his goggle to inspect it.

"This" he pointed at a square, "is where you live. Your problem," he looked Zain sternly in the eye, "is that you don't live in such a great place. It's we call the BySide. We-" he peeled back a paper from the map ((somehow showing what was in between the walls)) "this is us. He pointed at a this rectangle, "we live in your walls."

"In my WALLS?"

"Yes, in fact," he knocked on a pipe, "this is what you hear from your room."

"You're in my walls?!"

Joseline was ignoring them both, feeling sulky and guilty.

"We live in your walls young MyboyZain. It is as normal as you waking up, falling asleep and eating breakfast. We are your neighbors, for better or wors-"

"But definitely for better." Joceline chimed in.

"For better! You see!" He pointed at the map, "also, you see this?" He pulled out a magnifying glass from his goggles, "this here-"

"Why is everything so small?"















----------

"Well, we couldn't help but notice your Dad works at the power plant. And as per his working there, he gets his power, to an extent, for free."






"We also know the side people, like us when we have them, value their neighbors. It's the power of being neighborly. Please, if you would, help your neighbors."

They both smiled in unison, as if on cue, and looked long at him.

 

"I understand it's a very heavy thing to ask. It's unfair that we are desperate I know. But desperate people do..." he leaned in closer, "desperate things."






























--------------



They have moved the main source of their metal maybe from queens to staten island?, and plastic sucks.













Summary: Mr. Husk explains the situation, how he needs electricity in exchange for showing him the city, gives him some rare food.
----------

Secret of the masons is the glue that colors and holds together cracks instantly.

Mr. Thander looked at him blandly then smiled, "Myboy Zain, of course to save space. Space... Is of unimaginable value."


...

"Well, if you can imagine, there was a time when everyone lived together. We started creating these buildings, building you see all over. We are the original masons.

We formed comittees and guilds for builders, but teh government always struck us down. We feel we gave it our all, to washington, to Jefferson, to all of them. But we were the bottom rung, and on top of building our own homes we had to pay rent for them.

So a silent revolt formed, then a very loud revolt, and a whole slew of us, hundreds if not thousands, were to be hung and guillitined for our dignity. Can you imagine! No you cannot imagine.

But a few of us, one day before the killings, decided to make a deal with the government. A deal that's been made thousands of years, as long as the masons built buildings. We decided to maintain the internals of structures, so they wouldn't mold or collapse, in exchange to be left alone and forgotten.

This was a very easy deal ot be made. Less mouths to be fed, while enjoying the splendor of masonary construction. At first it was quite difficult, but we had a few things that the governments and the landlords did not have. And tehy should never have, because then we'd be ruined all over again.""



--------

"Some Dodo?"

Zain was stunned, "This is real Dodo?!"

"Yes well, you weren't using them, so we took them in. Like all the other animals you threw away. So we took them and they were put to use. I think they're much happier here."

The meat tasted like an equisite ostrich, something Zain had never tried. But he felt like he did, and it felt like something even better.