1.

History tries to tell us the facts of what happened to people before us. 

But history though, has a problem.

They say history is at the mercy of those who observe it. If your father threw a rock through an abandoned house window (just as an example, I don't know your father _that_ well) and 50 years later you were asked to write the history of that house in a book, and 500 years later that book was uncovered... And what would people think? What would you have written? Famous historian's dad was annoying? They'd have to read a different history about that house in _another_ book your mothr's friend wrote, and who knows if they liked your Dad enough or even thought about the window or even _saw_ it at the time?

Also, the past keeps happening and it's hard to keep up. Would you care to mention the broken window at all if your dad fixed it the next day?

Sure you could rely on evidence, depending on how much you have and what story it tells.

That's why a lot of real information is lost forever. Especially when people cannot believe their eyes or ears. Truth stranger than fiction is the hardest to write, because no one believes or ever will believe it anyway. But it's still important to know what really happened.

Did Julius Ceasar like cold weather? Where is Genghis Khan buried? ((great mysteries of history here))

The Russian Czar died in a chess match. Why?

One mystery no one talks about is why the Ivan the Czar, in ____((year)), died while playing a chess match? It's a pretty odd/boring way to die. History tells us he banned chess, started playing it that year and didn't even wait to finish playing his last game to die.