Have you ever heard of the Russam family?



Here they are together. From left to right:

father Mariam  big brother Rumi big brother  Zain ...   and Ruby, their bird








The children didn't really mind the hard work, but it made them hate potatoes. Every meal was potatoes. A potato breakfast didn't taste much different than a potato lunch or dinner. Even looking at a potato irritated them.

Ruby also hated potatoes. After eating half of one, she threw the other across the room and yelled "potato!"

Everyday the children woke up, sighed, and went to work. Shovelling and hoeing. Mariam prepared the bread, cleaned the house, did the laundry. The children and the father tolled in their small field, happy because they were together, sad because they hated potatoes.

"I hate potatoes." Said Zain.

"They are awful." Said his older brother.

"I never want to see any potatoes, but I even dream about them too." Said his older sister.

"Everyday." Said the oldest.

They only comfort in the whole world was chess. A game their father taught them and played with them every night.

------

Ruby also tilled the ground, hitting and scratching the first with a tiny hoe. Every so often

--------------

Have you ever heard of the Russam family?

Daniel, the father,

Mariam, the mother

The four kids, Manuel 15, Poco 13, Iota 10 and Zain 7, in that order, dug the ground together.

Oh, and Ruby the parrot.




The Russam family sat snug around a very big fire in the heart of a Russian winter.

They had a potato farm and learned to

A letter arrives from a mysterious man.

It invites the family to the Russian Tzar's palace.

They met some magic people, around then many people believed in magic and it was fairly common to magicize things.




Bad guy challenges Ruby the parrot in the end for a game of chess. Ruby wins with one move.
