
Chapter 30. The match:

"I'll play... With the bird."

"With ruby?!" The Russam family gasped.

Any one of them felt they had a chance to beat the Czar. He thought no one practiced chess but they did in secret for years... But Ruby?



The guards opened the cage and took Ruby out. She gave a slow growl at them and tried to bite their hands but was soon distracted by the board. The Czar looked on horribly with a horrible face.



The room was absolutely silent. Zain held his breath and gulped down a thick gulp. His older brother did as well. And _his_ older sister. And her older brother. And then both their parents.



"You first." (Your move?) The Czar whispered.



What happened next every historian confuses. Some people say the czar suffered from a heart attack or indigestion,  while others say it was a stroke.

But what really happened was nearly impossible. People can barely explain it. But sometimes truth is stranger than fiction, and the truth is this.

Ruby tilted her head and looked at the pieces. The Russam family leaned in closer.

Vlad The guard touched the blade of his axe. The Czar slowly smiled a twisted smile.

Then, looking at the board, he frowned in disgust.

Ruby walked over and grabbed one piece with her beak. She then put it back on the board.

"Checkmate" Ruby said. With one move, she defeated the czar and made the best move in chess history.

"What?!" The czar screamed a huge scream, the whole palace heard it.

His shame, honour and dignity were all shattered. He was angrier than all his previous angers put together. His blood boiled, so much so that he boiled himself from the inside. He took one last gasp at Ruby, then fell back in his chair dead.



As the guards rushed towards him, the Russam family rushed to the doors. They hailed for Ruby













What happened next shocked every historian studying the Russam family.


------
