Title: Friends

Possible other title: The-eternal-possibility-that-wanders-touching-everyone



-------------





He felt he had little in common with her but that look, the one she made when she stared at him. He could match it. And that they knew how alone they were in the world and it was a solemn feeling. They shared that and they could lie against each other and not say a word, holding hands even, facing oblivion. And that was it.

-----

He didn't know if she was like that with anyone else. But tried to forget she was any different. He tried to ward off thoughts of what her sex with her husband was like with her.



-----

She bundled herself up under her hat and knit boots.

As they walked back from Times Square she held his arm. He felt her small breast wedged up against his arm through their jackets. She stared at the ground. Her smile was distant but somehow made her cuter instead of lost.

He tried not to stare at her too long in case she noticed. His heart kept telling him she was beautiful. She never noticed though, busy with her phone, busy with her thoughts of work, of the next day.

"I miss you" he whispered.

"Me too." she whistled out, her voice was wound up tight on a string.

-------

He got in the subway and it whisked him far into queens. Someone sat opposite to him. A beautiful curly haired blonde with leg warmers and a soft shy skin tone. They didn't talk and never met each other again.




-------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------

He remembered her dormitory bed was simple, minimalist and empty ((except for us)).  A towel covered the entire thing and then a thin sheet on top of that.It's where they lied thinking, a few times even holding hands. Her hand was warm and was the softest thing in his mind. Nothing else in teh room mattered really, it was mostly empty. With them on the bed, fully clothed, contemplating life, the future and their relationship to the world for the first time every time again and again. She was as lost as he was as she was as he was.

Her ex-boyfriend then was a popular topic. Another time She found two tickets to a movie, a bad one, in his wallet when he went back to Korea.

"It's too obvious. Is he just careless?"

"I don't know, maybe?" Her voice rose at the end of each sentences, half a whine. It was grating but very cute.

"This movie is so horrible, maybe they didn't watch it and they did something else." We laughed, her nervously. We were so innocent we couldn't even bring ourselves to contemplate the words behind that possibility. We talked about his broken Korean, how caring and humble his mother was. A devout christian widow, set up a separate room for Minsin to sleep in when she visited. She told me about how their cat sat on her face often at night, and they made her allergic een though she swore she wasn't before.

Around exams she invited me over to study, but her room was so warm I fell asleep without reluctance on her bed while she studied at her desk. She never found it amusing and kicked me out when she needed to sleep. It was just routine to her.

......................................................

She dictated me the whole day play by play until I stood in front of her hotel room. It was weird remembering who she was, A walking memory, or in her case a stationary memory, sitting diseased with melancholy sprinkled with ironic giggles. I knew she thought it too, we both did, how the city shadowed anywhere either of us went. We were together awkwardly closing in on eachother, in no hurry.

"Haitham!" She screamed out in joy when I knocked, and she screamed it again when we hugged and turned in circle after circle, carrying her light body in an embrace. 

......................................................

She went on about her new fiance for months



The hotel by Grand Central threw people in and out so fast its revolving doors they had to catch their breathe. Straight from work, just after eight thirty, I went in and up the elevator. My heart beat faster like a tribal drum. because after ten years you don't know what to expect. I hoped I grew up after all of that, but I couldn't be sure. I knew though that I'd be seeing the same face, the same girl.

Her smile could be felt just behind her door. I heard her coworker in there, shuffling to pack her things as they talked.

After a knock, "Come i~n" she sang.

The heavy room hotel door was the last barrier. It slid swiftly open, dragging its feet on the carpet. And barely a moment later was enough for me to see Minsun sprawled on the bed, her roommate packing up. 

There was no pause. Jumping up and into my arms in one movement, she screamed "Poco~!" And I swung her around in circles in my arms as she held onto me, light as a lunch, with every long lost friend finally rediscovery scene watching. Cliche watched too, and didn't shrug this time I know. It was so over the top it was a first.

We stopped and we looked into eachother's her eyes. "I didn't think you'd be so e~arly."

"I'm not," my mouth smiled. But I was, I knew I was. Grand Central had been in my mind since she told me, and I avoided it enough for the weeks until she arrived and toured it for an hour or two with spare time. Without the rush it felt barron, and there were brief moments where only a few people stood in the main hall, each one alone waiting for them to happen on someone. 

Her coworker's dark tan skin made me think she could have been from any number of countries, but I'm a terrible judge of origin or character on first impressions or long impressions. o many people were getting unlimited tans you'd have to chip at ths skin on the shoulders to know if it's real or fake. She was on her way out anyway to catch her plane. Minsun introduced us briefly, and we idled chatter in the air, placing the words carefully and professionally. Since the small talk was so miniscule we lost sight of it and it was over.

"I hope you both have a wonderful time."

"It's been ten almost," I corrected her.

"Ah ten is so long. You should have so much fun."

"Sorry I can't be with you Helena~" Minsun squeeked. They embraced quickly from the shoulders up.

"You don't need me anyway, catch up! Catch up! My brother will be waiting for me at the airport I don't want to miss my flight. It was nice meeting you."

Soon enough we stood alone, "So how have you be~en?" she placed her hand on my shoulder and paused, laughed a bit then headed over to the bathroom, her purse, the nightstand, the closet. She kept looking back at me, listening to my confidence, or my bravado?

"I've definitely been, it's been too long. I can't believe I found you, really."

"Actually I wondered for so often... Where is Poco? I tried looking for you everywhere but your name doesn't show up. Poco Saltino is very easy to find."

"Ah it's 'Seltino'"

"What? Really?"

"Yea. Minsun Kim is a pretty easy name to find. So many people came up it was hard to know which was which, no one had pictures."

We would smile at eachother, and pause, and look into eachother's eyes, and seriously no need for dramatic effect because we'd be content to do that, but out of necessity we'd need to come up with something to talk about, pathetic small talk that led nowhere, and we'd hack at that.

....................................................

The Italian Chinese restaurant was at the ground floor of the Waldorf. They served tiny portions of food cut into various shapes and probably placed on the plates with tweezers. To me, honestly, the food was all tasteless. It didn't taste bad, it just didn't taste. My senses only took in the moment and mixed it roughly with my memories, then slowly folded them on top of eachother.

Shadows on her face flitted in and out by the candlelight.

"How is your wife? When did you get marri~ed?!"

"4 years ago."

....................................................

"What's your fiancé like?"

"He's handsome, and smart. He's a young doctor studying to be a hart ((heart)) sugeon. ((surgeon))" She said as a matter of fact, recalling him and smiling. "He's not like my other boyfiends ((sic)) you met before."

"Really? What's he into besides ripping people's hearts out?"

Without batting an eye, "He's into basketball. Last time he came here he wanted to see where ____ used to play before he got famous. So we took a train, up to Bronx. Two hours! We got there and the area was so sketchy, so after five minutes we headed back."

"That must have been really annoying..."

"It was fine. I mean, we saw Statue of Liberty, Times Squa~e." She trailed off, looking at the food, at the lights in a daze.


"Well what's he like?"

"He's like, an athletic guy. After a long day at werk, he just wants to play basketball. He loves it so much. One time we were in New York for a visit, and we went all the way up to teh Bronx. He wanted to see where ___________ played. SO we took the train for two hours, but by then it was getting dark, and the area is not so safe, so we were there for two minutes, saw it then went back."


....................................................


"When did he first say I love you?"

"A~h," she sighed into her words, and like some ((secret)) gossip she gave it to me very quietly with a smile. "He never did."

"Wait what? You can't be serious..." in shock.

"I~'m seriu~s!"

"But you told him right? That you loved him?"

"No I didn't..." She laughed, and her eyes widened as she honested to me "I'm not gonna lou~use!"

I put down my fork and looked her straight in the eye, disappointed.

"He's the only one I've shown my belly fat to. I know he's the one. I mean, I don't regret anything."

-----------

belly fat

her fiance's joke, loving her for her body.

they never said I love you to eachother

------------

....................................................

We took a small detour from the hotel, and headed left, then up towards 47th.

"You want to skate tonight."

She yawned back to a particular memory, "How did you rememb~er? I love to skate."

"Rockerfeller center is open."

"I can't ice skate there. I had a very, ~bad~ experience." her accent pronounced every C like an S, and every S was mutilated, ground to dust while her tongue pushed against the back of her teeth. Before she said a sentence she prepared it, revving it up. She said the first few words, stopped, then charged on with the rest.

"What happened?"

Sullenly, she replied "I'll tell you." and her voice quieted dramatically as if on some que. She recited the story naturally, upset but accepting. "I used to be engaged to someone named David. He owned a massage business. We dated for three years, and finally he took me ice skating there, and proposed to me. I didn't know exactly what to do. So many people were there. It must have cost so much, and everyone was staring at me, and I said yes, but my Dad, he said no."

"Did you love him?"

"Yea I guess so. We were together for a long time. We did everything."

"So what did you do?"

"What could I do~~~? We broke up. No poi~nt! I still can't skate there. It's really bad memory."

"Well... I checked Bryant Park this morning, they said it'd be open for skating tonight."

Her arm curled into mine tigther, and we walked like that. Occassionally, we would smile at eachother, and pause, and look into eachother's eyes, and seriously no need for dramatic effect because we'd be content to do that, but out of necessity we'd need to come up with something to talk about, pathetic small talk that led nowhere, and we'd hack at that.

It snowed heavily the day before, but all of the fluff turned into hard ice by the end of that night. It was so crunchy under our feet, just piles of it pushed up against random trees, gates and corners. We walked silently for a while  at the top of Bryant park. No one was there, and no one skated there. I jumped on a table and looked into the rink over the gates. It was closed, even when I read earlier that it would be open. New York failed me. And she looked around, her face blank.

"What if, we made a new memory at Rockerfeller? A happier memory?"

A pause. "I'm sorry Poco, it's ok but I can't do it. It's there and it's been there for a long time, my feeling. I didn't date anyone for years after that. No one."

She looked at me, then away, "that's life, you kno~w?"


....................................................


"I'll only ask this once, not to make it awkward as I tried to make it awkward."

"Ok," she said with a child's voice, her voice, like my daughter's voice.

"Remember we made a promise, to marry each other..."

"Really?" she said without looking at me, "I don't remember that."

"When we are 30, we said, if neither of us was married then we'd marry eachother." Her eyebrows squenched at that one.

"Would you have married me then?"

She then stopped me dramatically, looked me straight at me in the eye, "If you were rich." And laughed so hard, and I pretended to laugh with her. She almost doubled ove, and came down.

"I don't kno~w. We never tried. We'd have to date eachother, get to know each other, you kno~w. Then maybe... But you got married anywa~y so you ruined that."

....................................................


"Less juss rest for now." And she plopped on the bed, arms out.


She loved beds somehow even more than I remembered. She snuggled in the covers and her eyes closed, her infinite black whisps of hair on her white pillow, the happiest dark starfish. Her eyes stared at me and smiled, and her mouth smiled, beaming radiantly. It was so hard to not look away from fear of being burned.

Our first memory resurfaced. In it only she talks, and I'm mute. Walking down a gloomy college dorm hall, suddenly framing the most beautiful thing on earth after turning a corner. The shock shook me a few steps back. She said "Haee" (("Hi")) in a sing song voice.



"You didn't marry him because of your father?"

"David owned deli~'s. You know deli~'s? Like with sandwiches? My father didn't think it was such a good job. He was also not assertive. I could walk over him and my father didn't like that."

..........................


We hugged on our way out. She, still so light, I felt if I hugged hard enough I would crush her. So I didn't and she survived ((she crushed him)).

..........................


For two weeks my wife and daughter were out of town, and every day I walked by the skating rink, and one day I finaly rented skates. Overpriced coming with an additional fee for a locker, a steal.

On the ice, going slowly, holding on to nothing. But then my legs began to piston and I went faster and faster, propelling me around the rink. Past the children out too late. Also past couples skating between extremes. They glided along passively aggrivessively fighting or laughing at how desperately they were clinging to each other. They all started to blur in front of me and in my mind as I went faster and faster in the circle.

And then I remembered her nesting in her bed covers, in her pajamas drifting off to sleep, then her hand proping up her shaky head at dinner as she stared back at me. And then I began to cry because I'm an idiot.















..............................................................................

Random notes:


- girl and guy meet in NYC
- girl has fiance coming the next day
- find out girl and guy have history of flirting
- guy has a son and wife
- guy is in love with the thought of her
- realizes his friend was just someone he made up in his head or was, instead of real life


Minsun talks like this:
- Sudden exclimation:
	- "Oh my ga~wd!"
	- "So we took a train, up to Bronx. Two hours!"
- Talks like a windup toy




Wants better for her than her fiance'.



"You love me!" she yelled, and slapped my arm. "Poco loves me. Oh Poco, the best Romance ~ever~" and as she laughed her hair fell in her face.


-------------------


What did we mean to eachother, really?




We made up excuses on what our long hugs meant, and how no one cheated.



We made a promise to eachotehr that, if we weren't married by thirty, we'd marry each other.




-------------

"There are some things you can't share, like when ~someone~ fails. It's too close to them and they can't take it."

Old friend from university leaves, he pines for her later but he's married.

-----------

Travels alone.

----------

Never said I love you to her husband, neither did he say I love you to her.

----------

Casually mention kid and wife.


-----------

We walked through times square. She took less pictures than i remembered, and her neck wasn't as tall as I remembered because she wore a light beige sweater. It was practically skin colored, modestly soon. An illusion when I thought I saw something I shouldn't have. I was releived, honestly. Her memory was alive, in front of me.

The people milled around like pillbugs sniffing every corner of the square, which has never been a square, and we walked back, after a few pictures, quietly.

-------------------


We went up to her room, the whole time, she looped her arm in mine, and we walked back. 

She went to the bathroom and came out in pajamas.

Do you think I changed? Am I different?

I hugged her in the bed, and then once when we got up. I knew I'd miss her, and she closed the door.

I got on the train, heading back over the bridge, over the river. 

-------------------




I didn't go to her wedding because I didn't want to see her marrying this man.


:::: It's about discovering the person you made to be so beautiful be so different from what your imagination construed.



----------------------


The eternal possibility that wanders touching everyone

He ran. She called.

She called a taxi.

They sat. She talked. He listened. She sighed. He consoled. She played with her spoon.

She expensed the meal. He paid the tip.

She was pregnant. He congratulated her. She lost the baby. He was sorry.

They walked back to the hotel. She leaned in. He held her. She





She disappeared forever. He walked home.

-----

Lying on the bed together dreaming of life in college

((But)) You can't masturbate to that kind of memory. You probably shouldn't((, at the very least)).

-----

He felt he had little in common with her but that look, the one she made when she stared at him. He could match it. And that they knew how alone they were in the world and it was a solemn feeling. They shared that and they could lie against each other and not say a word, holding hands even, facing oblivion. And that was it.

-----

He didn't know if she was like that with anyone else. But tried to forget she was any different. He tried to ward off thoughts of what sex with her husband was like with her.



-----

She bundled herself up under her hat and knit boots.

As they walked back from Times Square she held his arm. He felt her small breast wedged up against his arm through their jackets. She stared at the ground. Her smile was distant but somehow made her cuter instead of lost.

He tried not to stare at her too long in case she noticed. His heart kept telling him she was beautiful. She never noticed though, busy with her phone, busy with her thoughts of work, of the next day.

"I miss you" he whispered.

"Me too." she whistled out, her voice was wound up tight on a string.

-------

He got in the subway and it whisked him far into queens. Someone sat opposite to him. A beautiful curly haired blonde with leg warmers and a soft shy skin tone. They didn't talk and never met each other again.