Education
Consider not only the basics—whether he completed elementary school, high school, college, or graduate school—but also when he finished these programs (a Ph.D. at twenty-four is as telling as a B.A. at forty-eight). How is his grammar, diction, spelling, vocabulary? Is he smart despite having never been to school? Is he naive despite his Yale degree? How hard did he have to struggle to get his education? Did his parents pay for it, or did he work himself through college? How much does it mean to him? Does he act or feel superior as a result? Inferior?
Any special training? Does he have a commercial driving license? Training as an electrician, as a plumber? Does he take continuing adult education? Is he constantly seeking to educate himself? Does he study new languages or vocabulary words on his own? Is he a big reader? Is he the self-taught type, or does he need the structure of a program? Does he love to learn, or is all education a struggle?
Employme nt
What sort of job does he have right now? A white-collar job (executive, lawyer, doctor, banker), a middle-end job (bureaucrat, salesman, manager), a blue-collar job (mechanic), or a minimum-wage job (delivering pizza)? How long has he had this job? Someone remaining in the same job for forty years is as telling as someone switching jobs once a month. Is this job congruous with his background, his level of education, his training? Is he delivering pizzas with a Ph.D.? Is he running a major company with a high school diploma?
How hard (and how long) did he have to work to get to where he is now? Did he get help from parents, friends? Does he work for his parents? Is he in his parents' line of work at all? Is he in direct competition with his parents? Who are his competitors? Who are his clients?
How is he viewed within his company? Is he a slacker? Does he come in late, leave early, and take long lunches and vacations? Is he motivated, organized? Does he have a direct boss? How do they get along? Does he have people below him? How does he treat them? Is he honest in all his business dealings?
Does his job consume his life? Is it part-time, full-time? Is he a workaholic? Does he work three jobs? Is his role in business his main identity in life? Or is he unemployed? Between jobs? How many jobs has he had? Has he never been able to
hold a job? Why not? Problem with authority? Police record? Or is he so rich he doesn't have to work?
Is she stuck at home raising kids when she wants to be out working? Does she experience sexual harassment at the office? Has she ever? Is she working in what is traditionally a man's field (i.e. policewoman, firewoman, stockbroker)? Is she treated with less respect because she's a woman? Is he working in what is traditionally a woman's field (i.e. hairdresser, schoolteacher)? Is he scoffed at because of it?
If he is not in a permanent or ideal job right now, what job does he aspire to?
If you were to ask your character to analyze himself, would there by a discrepancy? Does he consider himself a hard worker although he works four hours a day? Does he consider himself well thought of within his company while the people around him can't stand him?
Police Record
If you were to hire someone, you would probably run a background check, which would include a basic check of his criminal history. Has he ever been arrested? If so, how many times? How frequently? When was the last arrest? Was he
convicted? Did he serve time? Where? For how long? Who bailed him out? For how much? Were his crimes violent
(armed robbery, assault, rape, murder)? Or nonviolent (embezzling money, computer hacking, burglary, auto theft)? Why did he turn to crime? Was it a onetime thing? A mistake? An act of desperation? Or did he enjoy it? Is he a career criminal? Has he ever been in a car accident? Was anyone hurt? Does he have many tickets, moving violations? (There is a big difference between the man who has a blemish on his record for shoplifting as a teenager and the man who has a blemish for assaulting his ex-girlfriend.)
Now apply these questions to the character(s) in your work. What details might you incorporate that you may not have thought of previously?
The Banker
Y>ur job is to approve mortgages. Y)ur bank has been burned many times before, at the cost of hundreds of thousands of dollars, and you have been given the mandate to be extra cautious in approving someone new. An applicant sits before you. What might you like to know?

Economics

What's his credit report like? Spotless? Awful? Has he ever declared bankruptcy? Defaulted on a loan? Do creditors call his house night and day? Does he default on other things in life, too? Is he spending his life paying off debt? What percentage of his monthly bills does it comprise?
How much does he make? Is there any potential for growth? How much does he have in the bank? How much in investments, in collateral? How much in debt? Is he rich, poor, or somewhere in the middle? If rich, how long has he been wealthy? Did he earn it the hard way, or receive an inheritance? If poor, has he always been poor? Is there any hope of his being rich? If once rich, how did he lose his money? Is he a gambler (the stock market, horses, casinos)? Can he not stop himself from buying goods (fancy cars, electronics, clothes)? Does he have a credit card problem? Is he steeped in college loans? Supporting someone else? Living off someone else? Did he steal the money? How important is money to him? Does he live in perpetual anxiety over it? Or does he hardly care at all?
Was he raised rich? What was the neighborhood like? Destitute (ghetto), working class (mining town or fishing town), middle class (suburbia), upper middle class, or upper class (Beverly Hills)? How did his class affect his identity? Does he hate rich people? Despise poor people? What are his deep feelings about money and the people who have it?
Possessions
Make a list of the major things he owns. Any valuables? Jewelry? Artwork? Coins? Stamps? Rare books? Any collections? Expensive furniture? Electronics? Music? Musical instruments? China? Silverware? Plants? Is it a long or short list? What comprises the greatest percentage of it? What does that say about him?
How long has he had all of his stuff? Has he owned it all his life? Was it passed down from generations? Or did he just buy it all last week? Did he steal his things? Is he renting or leasing them?
How much value does he put on his possessions? Does he take good care of his things, or does he treat them poorly, lose them? How big a role do they play in his life? Does he equate himself with what he owns? Or does he give everything away? (Also see Geography: Residence below.)
What about vehicles? Does he own a car, truck, motorcycle? Did he buy, rent, lease, or steal? How old is it? How long has he had it? How frequently does he get new vehicles? How does he treat them? Is he a good driver? Does he spend every weekend waxing his car? Or has he not washed it in ten years? How important is his vehicle in his life—does he equate it with who he is?
Now apply these questions to the character(s) in your work. What details might you incorporate that you may not have thought of previously?
If you were to ask your character to analyze himself, would there by a discrepancy? Does he insist money is unimportant to him while watching every cent? Does he consider himself having been raised humbly though he was brought up in Beverly Hills?
The Matchmaker
Imagine you work for the most elite matchmaking service in the country. Your clients are the wealthiest, most eligible bachelors in the world, and they, too busy to look for themselves, are completely trusting you to find them the match of their lives. What might you ask interviewees?
Romantic History
Has she ever been married? Engaged? If so, is she separated, divorced, a widow? At what ages did any of these happen? (Divorced at eighteen can be as telling as single at sixty.) How many serious relationships has she had? How many passing, casual relationships? How big of an impact have these partners had (or do they still have) on her life? Is she haunted by past boyfriends? Stalked by an ex- husband? Must she still see him once a week when he visits the kids? How frequently does she enter relationships? A new boyfriend once a month, or once every five years? Is she the one to initiate the breakup? How does she go about meeting men? Does she spend time in bars? Place ads in magazines? Does she enjoy life being single? Or is a relationship a necessary part of her life? What does she look for in a mate?
If you were to ask your character to analyze herself, would there by a discrepancy? Does she consider herself hardly ever in a relationship while having twenty boyfriends a year?
The Real Estate Agent
Imagine you are a successful real estate agent and a woman has come to you desperate for help in finding her the perfect place to live. She has no idea where she wants to move, and you know nothing about her. What might you ask? Geography: Residence
Where does she live now? In a house, apartment, trailer, houseboat, tent? Does she own or rent? Or is she squatting, crashing at a friend's, or homeless? How long has she been there? (A person staying in one place for fifty years is as telling as her moving every week.) Is she a homemaker, and is every
detail of her residence of the utmost importance? Or is she a slob, and is her residence in need of repair? Is her residence spartan or crammed with trinkets? Where did she live
before? Is it a step up or a step down? Who does she live with, if anyone? A roommate, sibling, lover, parent, friend? Are there others in the building? On the block? Are they nuisances? Does she
have rowdy neighbors? A Peeping Tom? Is she
rowdy herself? Does she honor leases? Does she damage her abodes? What does she aspire to in a living situation?
You can tell much about a person by her home. Furniture, books, music, art—take a look around. What's there? You can tell a lot simply by looking at titles of books, the types of music, if the furniture is cheap, tacky, or designer. Are there plants? Pictures? Is it warm, lived in? Or is it cold, empty, sterile? A person who lives in a monastery with only one bag to her name is as telling as one who lives in a mansion crammed with material goods. (Also see Possessions above.)
In general, is she an indoor person? Does she hardly leave her house? Or does she love to be outside? Always feel confined, spend all day on her porch, hardly enter her house at all?




Geography: Location
What country is she in? What state? What town? What street? Where on the street? Does she have a view? What's the neighborhood like? Rich, poor? Dangerous, safe? Did she grow up there? Near there? (Living in her hometown is as telling as moving as far away as possible.) Is she a traveler? Is she near the ocean, mountains, forest, hills? What is the climate like? Why did she choose that location? Does she aspire for something different? What is keeping her there (family, job, friends)?
In general, would you consider her a city dweller? A nature lover? Is she a big traveler? Always on the road? Has she been to many countries around the world? Does she set sail for years at a time? Or has she never left her hometown?
Pets
Not every place will take pets, so this can be an important factor, as it often is in people's lives. Does she have a dog? What kind? (A rottweiler says as much as a poodle.) How many? For how long? Does she take good care of it? How big a role does it have in her life? (An owner who sleeps with the dog, cooks it gourmet meals three times a day, and takes it to therapy is as telling as one who kicks it when she feels like it.) Other pets? Cats? Fish? A snake? Hamsters? Rats? A talking bird? Any of these can say something about her. Does she yearn for a pet? Why can't she have it? Because of the building? Because she's allergic? Because her boyfriend is allergic? Does her pet annoy other people in her life? Does she get off on that?
Now apply these questions to the character(s) in your work. What details might you incorporate that you may not have thought of previously?
If you were to ask your character to analyze herself, would there be any discrepancies? Does she
consider herself neat and tidy while her house is really in shambles? Does she consider herself the model neighbor while blasting her radio at 2 A.M.? Does she consider herself a devoted dog owner while only walking her dog once a week?

From Outer Character Traits to Plot Points
The purpose of all those questions was to get you thinking about your character in a way you might not have before; if you were able to unearth even one new detail, it makes it all worth it. But there is another benefit to all those question: Since this is a book on plot, we will now look at each of these character details and see how something as minor as a character trait can actually influence-in some cases, even define - the plot. by its end you'll begin to see that ideas for the plot can grow out of the characters themselves.
This is one of the more ambitious, time-consuming exercises of the book. For each character trait, ask yourself: How could this trait influence the plot? How could I base an entire story on this one trait? For instance:
Appearance: How could appearance influence the plot? Is she obese? (What's Eating Gilbert Grape) Deformed? (Hunchback of Notre Dame, My Left Foot) What about gender? Is she a woman battling to be accepted in a man's world? (,Shakespeare in Love) Is he feminine? Is she masculine? (G/ Jane) Or perhaps he/she is unsure about his/her gender itself?
(Boys Don't Cry, Flawless)
Age: What events and dilemmas come with what ages? The six-year-old losing her teeth or dealing with the baby-sitters (Home Alone); the 12-year-old entering high school; the 13-year-old becoming bar mitz/ahed; the 16-year-old celebrating her sweet sixteen (Sixteen Candles); the 18-year-old fretting about the prom or leaving for college; the 22-year-old being anxious about graduation and career; the 26-year-old facing pressure to marry; the 32-year-old carrying her first child; the 48-
year-old having a midlife crisis; the 65-year-old having a retirement crisis; the 85-year-old dealing with a retirement home (Cocoon)____Any of these can make a story in and of itself—and you can play against the grain, too. What about the 40-year-
old retiree? The 90-year-old worker? The child who graduates college at 19? The man who gets his degree at 41?
Medical Condition: How might a medical condition influence the plot? Has he caught a deadly virus? (Outbreak) Does a disease cut him down in his prime? (Brian's Song) Has he been told he
has a finite amount of time to live? (Blade
Runner) Or must he care for someone else who is dying? (I Never Sang for My Father) Family: How might family dynamics influence the plot? Must she introduce her boyfriend to her
 
parents? (Meet the
Parents) Must a girl marry according to the family tradition? (Fiddleron the Roof) Is a boy expected to take up his family's profession? (The Godfather) Must stepchildren learn to live together? (Brady Bunch)
Education: How might education influence the plot? Does a 40-year-old return to college to get his B.A.? (Back to School) Does a student spend a semester abroad? (Oxford Blues) Is he a teacher trying to hold a class together? (Lean on
Me)
Employment: How might employment affect the plot? Is he finding his way in a new profession? Does it turn out that his company is crooked? (The Firm) Does she live for her job? (Network)
Police Record: How might a police record (or the obtaining of it) influence the plot? Did he commit his crime in an act of desperation? (The Stranger) Was he wrongly convicted? (An Innocent Man) Did he spend time in jail? (Shawshank
Redemption) Did jail change his ways? (American History X)
Economics: How might his financial situation influence the plot? If poor, what would he do if he had a million dollars? If rich, how would he react if he lost it all? (Trading Places) Is
his dire financial situation forcing him to take desperate measures? Rob a bank? (Dog Day Afternoon) A jewelry store? (Straight Time)
Romance: How might romantic relationships influence the plot? Does the ex-wife want to get back at her former husband? (First Wives Club) Is he attracted to younger girls?
(Lolita) Does she fall in love at first sight? (Prelude to a Kiss) Is she a prostitute, trying to change her ways? (Pretty Woman) Is he a bachelor with cold feet? (My Best Friend's Wedding)
Geography: Residence. How might his residence influence the plot? (Madame Bovary, Goodbye, Columbus) Does he live in a castle? (Count Dracula) Does she live in a haunted house? (Poltergeist) Is he being held in a residence against
his will? (Misery, Flowers in the Attic) Does the action take place in a hotel? (The Shining)
Geography: Location. How might location influence the plot? (Joy Luck Club) Is the story heavily influenced by a suburban setting? (American Beauty) Does it play against the grain of a normal suburban setting? (Stepford Wives) Is it a remote, isolated landscape? (Fargo, The Thing) Or an overcrowded urban environment? (Soylent Green)
Pets: How can a pet influence the plot? (Walking and Talking) Is the pet a savior, friend, protector? (Lassie) Or is it a nuisance? (There's Something About Mary) A danger? (Cujo) Or the viewpoint for
an entire work? (Cat's Eye) Possessions: How can possessions influence the plot? (Shop Girl) Does the plot revolve around a piece of artwork? (Mr. Bean) A jewel? (Snatch) Is the car all-important? (Thelma and Louise)