Ch1. The City

SCREECH... TOCK.

WHIMP... CLANK...

SCREECH...

TOCK TOCK TOCK TOCK...

Then a pause-

Then a whine-

WHIMP WHIMP WHIMP...

Then a-

CLANK CLANK CLANK.

The floors were very thin, He heard the racket on the floor below. If he listened he could hear noises in the attic. But those came and left. If he had the windows open, the noises outside died down after 10 p.m. He was fine with all of those.

But the worst was the banging of the pipes deep within the walls. Only until 1 or 2 in the morning could he sleep, well after his father and uncle were home from the power plant. As long as he could remember the sounds played since moving in with his Uncle.

They repeated over and over. They kept Zain awake night after night. "I need to wake up early." he muttered. "How can I sleep like this?"


Zain's age






Zain was eleven years old by then. Once he was there he didn't care for New York City. He lived a long time with his parents in his grandfather's house. Once they had to move, they gathered up as many things as they could and went out to his reclusive uncle's house. They left their entire lives to try and make a better one for him. His mother was surprised his uncle responded, because she hadn't seen him in twenty years. In a letter, because he owned no phone, he told them they could come live with him.

They cleared out everything from the apartment, which wasn't much, and Zain took a last look. The shelled out place he called home looked weird (alien?) and deserted, as if they never lived there at all. The only thing he had left from his grandfather was an old metal ruler. His grandfather bought it for his dad but he didn't need it anymore. So he kept it as a keepsake, and cleaned it carefully.

When they finally made it to the apartment, their uncle welcomed them without a word. He was tall and thin, much like his mother, with a darker complection and a mess of brown and graying hair like a mop on his head.

It was a two bedroom apartment barely decorated with anything. When they arrved there was a block of cheese in the fridge, apples and some bread in the cupboard and that's it. Zain was shown a small room in the corner big enough for a bed, a dresser and a closet with a window.

"Where will you be sleeping?" His mother asked him. But Zain's Uncle didn't answer, and they all felt bad when they found him fall asleep on an ugly couch in the hallway every night. Nothing woke him though, so they got used to it.

The low muffled banging went on and on. Zain pleaded with his parents to change rooms, but they couldn't fit together in his.

"There's a beauty to the racket. This building is pure _class_." His father said with a wink.

The truth he knew was that his parents couldn't afford to move and barely made rent as it was. He knew that because he heard them aruging about it once a week late into the night. They had two suitcases of things when they moved into their quiet Uncle's apartment.

"But just because things are old doesn't mean they have to creak? Does the building manager know?" Zain asked drowsily.

"The building is _very_ old." his mother would tell Zain over breakfast.

"The building may be old Zain but it's not haunted or filled with monsters." His dad smiled, happily but sternly, "So that's one thing to be thankful for."

Zain hoped his Dad didn't think he still believed in monsters. He sighed an "Ok". But it was not ok.

"Things rot and rust and then they don't work." His dad continued, "some things don't work right anymore and they do stuff you don't expect." He looked back at Zain. For as long as Zain could remember he his father always had bags under his eyes. 

Zain's uncle sat on the other end of the table and nodded with a smile. Zain never heard him say anything.

"But how can I sleep?" Zain asked, seriously. But his father shrugged happily, "You'll get used to them," he winked, "I promise."

"We'll have to get curtains or something." Zain's mother chimed in. She combed her hair at the table and in between put the dishes away in a rush. 

That seemed to Zain like a weird promise for a father to make since his Dad had no control over something like that.

In fact Zain's whole family was tired. Zain's mother worked morning's at a laundromat six days a week. His father and uncle worked daily at the Harlem power plant. The entire family had dark brown hair and tanned skin, Zain felt it to be the color of dirt and the color of work. Real hard work.

The famiy moved in with Zain's Uncle early summer. He'd work with his mother during the days. Because of the heat he'd have to open the windows at night, and combined with the building noises he'd hear the city outside. The car screeches and shouts from the people were louder than ever. It was all very frustrating.

Every Friday night his parents sat down and tried to make sense of their finances. And while Zain was awake he listened as they tried to make sense of what they were going to do next. 

"Bills bills bills..." Zain heard his father sigh into the papers he shuffled.

"Bills bills bills..." as his mother tore open envelope after envelope.

Zain noticed the light down the hall flicker. "I have to replace that bulb. You know it's a miracle this building is still standing." Zain heard his father mutter.

"It's ~a miracle~ my brother could take us in. There's a reason for everything."

"I'm thankful honey, I swear I am." Zain's father coughed. "Jobs are vanishing left and right. Your brother said so many of his friends are out of jobs from a ton of closing factories around New York."

And on and on into the night. Soon their voices faded, and the pipes in the walls sang a cacophonous symphony to it all. It was Zain's daily lullaby.

He tried to find some pattern or solice in the sounds coming through the walls. But it was difficult. They clanked away and sometimes they got Zain up to stare out his windowsill. Down at the busy neighborhood full of sweaty tired people, moving down the pavement with hands in their pockets and no smiles on their faces. Their eyes never looking any other person's.

...

As he got braver every night, he began to climb out and look for any stars through the clouds. He saw one or two on a rare occassion when it wasn't too cloudy or too bright. 

Zain still knew he was lucky. His family scraped together money. They had no furniture to decorate with, and Zain's three pairs of clothes had to do. Zain's uncle lived in a place littered with crime. He had to stay put, because his parents were worried about muggings and beatings. Sometimes stabbings.

Zain knew his family was in a rough spot. He tried to ignore it, but couldn't. He wondered how he could get out of it. If he could ever do anything to help his parents, let alone get some rest. He was above the street but not much closer to the sky than anyone else. The bars on the fire escape were the same bars that were around him anywhere he went. He couldn't imagine what else life could be like, only better somehow.

...

At these times late in the night, he could sometimes see pigeons nesting on windowsills and fire escapes. He somtimes heard their coo'ing if he listened carefully. He began saving a bit of bread and putting it on the fire escape.

Then one day, a pigeon flew into Zain's room.

Usually, the pigeons he was used to seeing were rough around the edges with greys, blues and green mashed onto their feathers. This one had a blurry brilliant orange on its stomach. Even though Zain was awake, It scared him enough to jump. It trotted around his bed without a fuss with cool blue sleek feathers, watching him.

He took a step closer and tried to shoo it away, but it remained there, pecking a bit at his blanket, giving off a gentle coo.

"What are you?" He asked it. "Are you a New York pigeon? A Brooklyn Pigeon? Where are you from?"

The pigeon looked back at him, bending its head a few different ways and shook. They watched each other for a few minutes until the pigeon lost interest, dug its beak into its feathers and nodded off.




	


From that day in 1976 Zain put bits of crumbs on his windowsill. And while not everyday, the pigeon came often enough to peck and roost on the edge of his bed. Something in Zain felt a bit more comfortable, and while not early, something pulled him into his dreams a little bit earlier than before. And they snoozed together until the end of the fall.
