Ch2. School

While Zain was walking back to his apartment, two bigger kids sat in the hallway. One with an afro, the other a burly sort.

The burly one came up to him, "You're the new kid right?"

"Yea I'm new."

"I'm Davey." The kid said, and took Zain's hand to shake it. Zain watched the shake and said "Hi," a bit blankly. He thought it was his first friend so far.

"Zain, do you like dogs?" The kid with the afro said.

"Dogs? I'm ok with dogs."

"Well," the afro kid started, "my dog is stuck in an alley, we can't really gte him out."

The three of them walked outside, down two blocks, and they saw a big dog, what looked like a cross between an English Bulldog and a Dachshund (BullDach) sitting in the middle of an alley behind a fence. t had a thick brown coat, and it's eyes turned to them and watch the three boys eagerly.

"Our neighbor Mr. Denson tied him up in there. You can see his leesh is tied. "

"Why did he tie him up?" Zain asked.

"Because he's a jerk." The afro kid said. The burly kid just watched Zain. "We were trying to fit in there to untie him but we can't, the hole under the gate is too small for us. We wanted to know if you could help us get him out."

Zain looked at the dog. The two kids looked at him silently.

"What's his name?" Zain asked. "Is he friendly?"

"His name is Boozer... You want to help us out or not?"

The dog didn't look too big, but it eyed him cautiously. The burly kid pulled up a part of the gate and Zain slipped through slowly, now in the alley. He crept over to the leash, and the dog sat there as still as a board, but looking a bit more anxious.

Zain looked back, and both of them had their arms crossed. The afro kid said "Come on, are you gonna help us get him or not?"

He was a few feet away when the dog jumped up at him, it's teeth gnashing with shrieking loud barks that made Zain fall back in horror.

The two kids behind him were laughing until a voice called out "HEY!".

"Run!" Yelled the afro kid, and the two ran out of sight.

The man saw Zain just getting out of the fence and grabbed him by the collar, "Who the damn are you?" The man peered at him. He was waering a sleeveless t-shirt with thick hair sprouting all over his body except for his head, which was balding.

"What are you doing with my dog?!" He yelled again.

Zain tried to squirm away, "those two kids said that was thier dog."

"They damn wish it was their dog!" The man shouted, "He'll tear you up, you have to have a deathwish to be going in there and visit Burger."

Zain said nothing, he just slumped his shoiulders and the man frowned at him. "Get out of here! If I see you trying to steal my dog again you're gonna regret it in a few different ways. Burger eats human burgers."

Zain got to his feet and saw the two kids around the corner.

"How was that funny?" Zain asked.

"You just get what's coming to you. You're new so we have to teach you the neighborhood."

"I don't need a tour from you."

The burly kid came up to Zain adn cracked his knuckles. He was a foot taller than him.

"You mess with us you'll be messing with the whole neighborhood, if you're still standing." said the afro kid.

Zain looked at both of them. "Whatever, screw you guys."

"Don't you have to go work at your laundrymat with your Mom?" The afro kid shouted at Zain as he was entering his building.

Zain looked back befoe he entered his building, "yea don't boethr coming by, we can't wash out the stains in your underwear."

He saw the burly kid begin to chase after him, but Zain ducked and ran up the stairs.





















One day while folding laundry with his mother, Zain asked, "Do I really have to go to school?"

"Fifth grade won't be as bad as you think." his mother said with three pins in her mouth.

"I'm not worried about fifth grade. I'm worried about what happens in the fifth grade."

"That makes no sense. You have to give it a chance."

Zain began dreading the day he'd go to school. But on his first day of his new school it was more horrific than he imagined.

The school looked like any other apartment building, only it had a gate around it with a concrete yard and the playground ((facilities?)) were all in primary colors. There was garbage piled up in front of it spilling into the street, similar to what was happening in the rest of the city.

Zain was too tired to stay awake, where he'd fall asleep in his morning classes and then nod off in front of the principle's office. Too tired to prove if he was any good at gym, math, history, biology, anything really.

The long halls were deftly silent until him and his mother passed by each door and heard the teachers and screams of kids from each classroom. He never walked down a longer hall and took that much time as long as he could remember.









Zain walked to into his class and it was deaf and silent.

Kids stared at him until he took his seat in the back, then they ignored him for a moment.

But the blonde boy in fornt of him turned around and whispered "What kind of name is Zain anyway? Like a fairy name. Like magic and mystical. You believe in that stupid stuff? You must with a name like that."

"What's _your_ name?"

"We're not talking abuot me. Is it a MAFIA name? Is your family in THE MAFIA?!"

"No they're not in the mafia..." Zain whispered back, trying to ignore him.

"That's what ALL MAFIA FAMILIES SAY." another boy with black hair over his ears snapped.

"Yea," said the blonde kid, "are they in JAIL?"

"YOUR FACE IS IN THE MAFIA!" Zain yelled, throwing a pen in the blonde boy's face ((too violent initially)).

"Zain!" yelled the teacher, "have you started causing trouble already?!"

Zain trotted to the principal, yawning, hating his new school already.

Eventually the visits became a regular thing.

But when the school tried to call home there was no answer, and when they tried to call work his Dad hung up immediately were worried about the repercussions of taking personal calls. So Zain sat in front of the principal's office, staring at the ceiling, staring at the desk, staring at the street outside until the principal let him off with a finger wag warning.














...

Daily he met up with his mom at the Laundromat and she asked him how his day was. "Fine" he said.

It is funny, Zain thought, how things are usually never fine when people say they are fine.

"Anything happen today? Did you meet any new friends?"

"Not yet." Zain watched as his mother folded clothes, brushed lint and ironed away at pants. He began to help her as it was a natural part of his existance, like folding was a habit now ingrained in him.

...

