Ch3.

Inside the Husk house

On a September day coming back from school before he entered his apartment on his empty street, he saw a girl standing against the wall of his apartment building.

She was like no other girl he ever saw. She had a huge yellow sweater on that said "Schlitz 1937" in white, long straight black hair, a blue patched jean skirt and leather boots. But the thing that struck Zain were her very thick round goggles she held in her hand. She shielded her eyes as she stared into the sky. Her face, except for the patches the goggles fit over, was covered in a light soot and a big smile.

She suddenly noticed Zain and was unsure of what to say. Zain almost continued on, not wanting to be rude by staring at her. But she stopped him when she asked, "Do you live in 2C?"

"Yes." Zain said, hesitantly.

"Can you come with me? Please?"

"I'd rather not."

"Please?"

From what Zain's parents told him, he ought to never talk to strangers. And this girl was pretty strange. And got even stranger, because she was so excited she came right up next to him, unbearably close.

"Uh..."

He saw her eyes, a deep deep green. And as he was lost for just a moment, it was long enough for her to grab his grandfather's metal ruler sticking out of his bag, and run around the corner.

"Hey!" Zain screamed. Amazed and stressed, he took off running after the girl.

She flew around the corner in a hurry and Zain was only two seconds behind her. But when He turned it, the girl vanished completely. It was just an empty sidewalk, with absolutely no one around.

Zain couldn’t believe he was going to lose his grandfather's ruler. He had never been robbed before, and was still in a panic. He walked a few feet and noticed something odd.

On a white brick wall, just like any other wall, but it looked like it was flapping just a bit back and forth. Curious, he pushed it. And instead of a rock hard surface, he fell right into the wall.

Zain didn't really think about where he was, or what he was doing, or how dark it was. All he cared about was his ruler. And he follow what he thought was the girl's breathing. First he was crawling through a small tunnel, then he stood upright in a very narrow wooden cave.

He heard a door slam and lock, and as he turned a corner he saw it. The door and fit within the walls cracks; it was crooked and almost as narrow as his body. There was no knob, only a very large key hole. It looked really old, and was covered in English letters that formed nonsense words, "Faentile Jilp". He took no time to bang on the door, "Give me back my ruler you thief!"

He heard some scuffle inside, like something moving around in a panic. Something clicked and a light turned on. In the keyhole he could see a magnified eye looking back at him. The door flew open and the girl flew right past him, running through the tunnel at a crazy speed.

"Hey!" He yelled at her and sped back.

At the end of the corridor where he came in, the girl pulled out a rusty paint scraper and dipped it into some clear liquid from a jar. She covered the crack the wall had and it sealed quickly with a slurping sound. was instantly dark. That was until two bright lights turned on next to the girl's goggles.

"What's so important about your ruler to you?" The girl asked, scrapping the wall even while it was smooth.

"I wouldn't tell you. Where is it? And how am I supposed to ge- WHO ARE YOU?"

The girl turned around with a contorted disappointed face. "I'm sorry." She said quietly, "but I don't need your ruler. Well, I need it, but actually, I need your help." And she passed him and went back down the tunnel.

Zain followed the lights down the hall carefully. She left the narrow door open. There was no knob, only a keyhole with a flap gto push. As he walked in, and couldn't believe what he saw.





The room he was in was like he was inside an enourmous wooden wheel, like a giant hamster wheel. All alone it were pockets of holes. Some of them had plants, others had weird gadgets with handles, others were food. And on its walls were knobs and cranks, maybe hundreds of them, all embedded in the wall. There were a few doors and trap doors lining the rim of the wheel. All around seemed like he was inside a giant wooden circle with tons of holes, pulleys, chains and buttons. He looked up, there was furniture on the ceiling, cabinets on the walls, black and white picture frames on the floor. 




In front of him was the girl, shuffling through things in the cabinets on the floor and on the sides of the room. She was tugging the sleeve of a man deep in thought dressed in what looked like an old dusty victorian suit with knick knacks all over it sitting in a wooden chair which looked like it came right out of the floor.

The man looked at the girl as she said "He's here!" 

"Who's here?" but she only looked on at him and it only took him a second before his jaw dropped. He got up, lifted a few lenses from his goggles and stared at the boy as his face went white. He stood until he could finally speak.

"What did you do?! Who is this?" The man demanded, waving his hand in what appeared to be exaggerated anger.

The girl didn't seem afraid, she smiled and uttered "He's just visiting Dad. He's from 2C."

The brain gears ground and turned furiously in her father's head, "Josslyn you didn-" But just then there was a knock. Zain couldn't quite place where, but he thought it might be coming from the ceiling.

"Dad!"

"No time to Dad! Quick hide in the closet." Behind and above Zain a door opened, and the girl's father pulled what appeared to be some cranks and pulleys on the walls. Her father yelled, "Mr. FGgdor is that you?" and suddenly, the room began to spin slowly. Zain, startled, fell backwards into the closet, and before her father closed the door he peered in with a, "Don't say a word, it's bad for the silence." They locked it and could hear them walking on top of the door.

The closet began to shift with the rest of the place. He was flat on his back when it finally stopped. He heard a latch unlock and a few things unbuckle,

"Mr. FGgdor I wasn't expecting you."

"I wasn't expecting you, neither." a deep hollow voice spoke with a joy in it, "a package for you Mr. Husk. How are you Josslyn? Not too dusty?"

"It hasn't been dusty at all around here." he heard the girl say. Zain tried to feel around the closet for something to hold on to, but nothing felt closet like.

"Well not up in the forty and forties. I've been delivering all day there and they've had it practically pelting the dust bits."

"That's no good sir, no good. Josslyn will mind herself that's for sure. I'll MAKE SURE of THAT." Mr. Husk spoke emphatically.

"Are you alright Mr. Husk?"

"Quite alright Mr. FGgdor, I was just in the middle of something. Please don't let me ruin your day with this... Chatter? Thank you for delivering."

"Well I d-"

Zain heard a heavy lever grind something and the man's voice suddenly vanished. He turned and toppled over more clothes as the whole room seemed to roll over. The door finally opened up and Mr. Husk was looking at him.

"Well hel-" but before Mr. Husk could say another word there was a loud rap at the door. "Husk you flathead open up this door! The mayor wants to bash your head in!"

"What a welcome surprise Julius!!!"" Mr. Husk said, then  "No time for this now, stay in the closet..." and he shut the door back on Zain, and in a moment the house creaked again but this time Zain held onto a hook for his dear life. The closet door wasn't closed so a few clothes fell out and Zain found himself hanging on the ceiling, looking down at the two men with Josslyn trying not to look panicked as she glanced up at him.

"Your house is a real mess Husk." Julius said in a scruffy cough.

"Julius, I can only live everyday by a sense of discovery- ah look! My trench coat!" Mr. Husk pulled one of the coats that fell just moments ago looking not the least bit frazzled.

"The mayor will see you by five this afternoon, Husk. I hope you've been working."

Mr. Husk huffed out of his nose and looked over Julius, "As an inventor I invent reinvent every moment Julius. I suggest you reinvent yourself and stop acting like a broken record, knocking on my door daily. Seriously you're lucky I let you in here. I'll be there by six. Here have a crumpet, it's Ansault Pear."

Julius didn't take the dry crumpet and was in fists as he treaded out the door, which almost nipped him as Mr. Husk turned the whole house again with a lever.

Mr. Husk then whispered a very loud "Shhhh!". 

They waited in silence for a full minute until they heard nothing. Zain heard Mr. Husk shut the door and flip some switches and chains. The closet moved around and finally positioned and Zain fell to the back of the coset instead of being pressed up against the door. 

Zain slowly got to his feet as it circled down. The coats kept sliding down as the floor moved. Josslyn and Mr. Husk strode at a leisurely pace over it. Mr. Husk didn't lay his eyes off of Zain while Josslyn tried not to catch either of theirs.


"Sorry." Josslyn said.

Mr. Husk busied himself with the shelves and yelled "Grounded!" He proceeded to push and pull levers all over the room. The wooden structure jiggered and wavered, things appearing in and out of the walls, gadgets jumping and dancing in the air, papers flying from shelf to shelf.

"How much more grounded can I get?"

"Grounded!" Mr. Husk yelled as things went flying. Light bulbs and switches and screws flew in the air.

"I'm helping you Dad!"

"Do you know how much trouble we'd be in, ~are~ in right now? I don't think I taught you-"

"We ~need~ him Dad he's in 2C."

"We don't need anyone we are doing absolutely fine I'll worry about what we ne-."

"I'm always worried! You haven't slept in two days and we ~need~ him. He can help u-"

Zain interrupted, "Why would I help you?! You stole my ruler."

"Josslyn you STOLE this child's ruler?"

"I'm not a child!" Zain said sternly.

At this Mr. Husk paused, and looked firmly at Zain. "Your name sir?"

"Zain" Zain pronounced in a soft voice.

"Hmmm... Zain." Mr. Husk began to think it over, rubbing an invisible beard. Then he glanced at Josslyn.

"I'm sorry Zain. But what my daughter did was very illegal and quite rude, even though she is right. We are in dire straights and we do need help, but I was hoping it wouldn't resort to this."

Zain asked, "Illegal? Why?"

"Unbelievably illegal. They'd make us move closer to the center, interrogation, death, whatever."

"Who? Whatever?"

Mr. Husk pulled some cranks, twisted a few knobs. The room started to move again, so they walked around, stepping over various buttons and things before stopping.

"Ok I will explain it. But it's a nasty business."

Mr. Husk pulled a chain and sat down on the stump that emerged from the floor, his face in his hands. He sighed, and looked at Josslyn sternly, then at Zain. He seemed resolute, deep in thought and defeated.

"Zain, we need your help."

"Where are we?"

"Try not to panic but," And Mr. Husk looked around the room "We are in your house."

Zain looked around. he tried to recognize the place in a new light. There were windows showing pipes, holes with tiny bits of light draining into the room, gadgets of metal and wood everywhere, an organized mess. He couldn't make out what Mr. Husk meant.

Until one of the pipes started whistling, and Josslyn grabbed a wrench and started tapping at it. He then heard the banging that kept him up everyday.

The weird whooshing whistle... The screeches... The tocks... The whimpers...

"Let's start again once more. My name is Inv. Strigger Husk. This is my daughter, Josslyn. Welcome." Mr. Husk said, waving his arm around him, his goggles staring straight into Zain's eyes "To our house. And welcome to the BySide."