((Maybe they just tlaked about byside mayor? A bit of a coincidence, because they just started talking about him. bad guy, lead in from previous chapter example)).


"Tell them all I have no time." Abraham Beame whispered to his secretary as he entered Manhattan City Hall. He wiped the beads of sweat form his forehead forehead. Under his breath he prayed for a miracle to save the city. These whispers eventually became a daily ritual.

As he walked people of all shapes and sizes jumped out from behind every corner and wall wanting a word with the Mayor. Reporters shoved microphones into his face. Businessmen held loose papers up to his eyeballs screaming demands. Different department representitives of the city screamed for him to sign different documents. He shoved them all out of the way, secretly hoping he wouldn't drown in them.

The mayor's secretary followed behind him dodging them all. She passed the Mayor a paper every other moment reminding him of upcoming appointments.

"The White House called to remind you about the upcoming meeting you have with the President at five in the afternoon next Saturday."

"You have the Police cheif at two. The agenda encompasses the recent rise in muggings and the Upper West Side murders."

"An appointment with Mr. Delancy at three thirty. The main item on the agenda is committing to a plan about the the city unions."

"You're scheduled with Lanny for your haircut. He can squeeze you in at four thirty."

Abe's only mission was to get to his office for some quiet. He kept a straight face but he could feel his armpits sweat through his coat.

He had to yell for everyone to hear him when he said, "Thank you ladies and gentlmen! Do come again!" And then, to his secretary, "Ms. Trener I'm out until one thirty. No calls until then."

He closed the door behind himself as he entered his office and exhaled. Abe was accustomed to the bustle of reporters, CEO's and politicians. But what kept him up every night and haunted him was what loomed over his head since he became mayor. The city was running out of money. It was on the brink of bankruptcy.

Abe sat in his office, his face in his hands thinking about what to do. He looked out the open window to the city. A city desperate to survive. He caught himself shaking and got up to pour himself a coffee. "The entire city is relying on me" he thought, "and yet all I can do is sweat."

He took out a sandwich Ms. Trener left him on his desk. A Turkey cheese and rye. HIs mind began to wander as he watched a few pigeons land on his window sill. They never came in, they knew better after his secretary shoo'd them away repeatedly, and not all her threats were hollow when she hollored at them. Mayor Abe also didn't eat anything they liked, so they usually only roosted.

But one pigeon flew right into his office landing on his desk. Mayor Abe's finger hovered above the button to call his secretary, but he began examining the pigeon, noticing something a bit odd about it. It wasn't dirty and ruffled like any others he'd seen. It had had a red crested front, was very sleak and looked healthy and very clean. Also around its neck was a leather strap holding what looked like a tiny speaker.

"Can you hear me Mr. Mayor?"

The mayor shut his eyes tight then opened them again. The bird was still there, looking around the room, with the box around its neck.

"If you can hear me please press the button and speak."

With a furrowed brow he looked at the speaker, then closely at the bird. It looked every which way. Abe hesitated.

"Hello?" The speaker yelled with static.

Reluctantly, the mayor stretched out a hand. The pigeon only shifted slightly when the mayor pressed the button and replied, "This is the Mayor of New York City. And you are... A pigeon?"

"ARG." The speaker roared, and the mayor jumped back. The voice continued in frustration, "My name is not important and something I never intend for you to find out. This pigeon is just a vessel."

"A vessel?" The mayor asked himself, quickly putting on his glasses. The speaker looked rusty and old, as if it were from a previous century.

"Just to be clear Mr. Mayor... This is not a joke. I'm not playing games."

"Well," the mayor pressed the button again, "this looks like the very definition of a game. You have a pigeon talking to me."

The staticy voice sighed. "You have no idea what you are getting into sir. I highly suggest you follow me on this."

Again he pressed the button, "I'm in the middle of a crisis. I have no time for this!" Mayor Abe then tried to shoo the bird away but it hopped over and around his swats. 

"Hey! Shut up!" The staticy voice said, "Shut up! Listen to me. I am holding your city hostage."

"Excuse me, what?!" the mayor said surprised, but the vocie continued above him.

"I need thirty million dollars. All of it in small bills. Set under the Brooklyn Bridge by July 10th." The pigeon looked up at Abe as if to check if he was paying attention then pecked the edge of his ledger, tugging at the bound material. 

Mayor Abe was speechless. He looked at the speaker and the bird as if they were both aliens. Once, twice, the gears ground in is head as what to make of this. Then he started to laugh very hard.

He pushed down the button hard. "You have go to be kidding me. The city is practically bankrupt you idiot! Is this Lindasy?" He began to call out "This is ridiculous. Ms. Trener?" The mayor yelled through the door, "WHA-"

"Yes, I know there's a crisis. That's why we are here. And that's not my problem." The voice muttered, "That's _your_ problem. I am holding your city hostage."

Abe pounded down the button and screamed "I have no time for talking radio birds." He grabbed the pigeon with both hands and proceeded to the window. It didn't flinch.

"You're making a big mistake, Mr. Mayor. I can shut this whole city down."

with a quick grab Mayor Abe picked up the bird and threw it out the huge windows, shutting them right after. "Stupid joke birds!" He yelled. Through the glass he could still hear the static, whispy and wild. "I will warn you a second time in a few weeks Mr. Mayor. If you want your city alive tehn we need that money." The voice slowly drifted away until it was gone.

Mayor Abe pushed an orange button on his phone and screamed, "Ms. Trener!"

She came immediatly as if on que, waiting just behind the door. "Yes sir?"

"Do you know of any sort of pranks going on in the office?" He eyed her suspiciously. 

"No sir, not that I can recall. Shall I investigate anything specific Mr. Beame?"

"Yes, but look into anything pranky. Something with radios involved. Also if John Lindsay calls ask him to knock it off. What does he take me for? Some kind of an idiot? He'll know what I mean."

"Radios..." She mumbled into her notes. Ms. Trener swiftly took some notes and walked out the door shutting it loudly.

Even with something so extraordinary, Abe's thoughts already started wandering back to how to keep the city afloat. And yet the bird lingered around those thoughts, doing loop-de-loops between the debt numbers floating in his head. He looked out the window and searched the sky for it again, but only found the dull grey clouds floating by.

















...

((Voice says: Give me all the money in the main bank, or New York City will be shut down form power permenantly.))










"Maybe a power outage won't affect us, if we don't care about it" ((don't use electricity))