- Make Zain more surprised

- What are the sounds humming, is it warm?

- Loose fitting

- More Josslyn in chapter 4 v

=================

Within the next few weeks, day after day Zain watched the outlet under his bed. A phantom wire came right out of the wall and into the electric plug he plugged in for one hour after coming back from school. He still heard the banging within the walls, though not as much as before. The new sounds were far more bizarre. He imagined they were grinding pieces off metal, banging into place bolts and iron, screwing and unscrewing things together. Behind the thin veil of brick separating him from the BySide universe, he wondered every day at school and every night in bed what they were building.

One day, Zain sat on his bed and knocked on the wall. No response. He knocked again, no response.

So he peered under his bed and pulled the plug.

A small square in his wall opened up, a tiny door, and he found Josslyn and Mr. Husk's eyes peeking at him.

"What is it Zain?" Mr. Husk asked, whispering, watching Zain's bedroom door cautiously.

"I could get you books on electricity too" Zain said in a whisper too.

"We thank you but it's probably a very bad idea. The amount of bureaucracy for just that plug alone is enough to dig through. We'd be in far more trouble than it's worth, not to mention illegalities. Pease plug it back in, we're in mid-breakthrough." They watched him eagerly, thanked him again, and shut the little door. He heard the few scrapes patching up the wall, and it was as if nothing ever touched it.

Disappointed, Zain thought of what else he could do.

But seconds later the little patch of wall opened again. "One book is all we need. If any are found they will burn us and the books. So we only need one, if you can. Preferably something on Nikola Tesla's inventions."

"But you have to show me the rest of the BySide." Zain said excited.

"That's impossible." Josslyn squeaked.

Zain eyes grew wider, "I thought you said impossible just meant you haven't done something yet?"

Josslyn's wondering eyes looked at her father's. Mr. Husk looked at her, Zain's and then the plug the wall. His brow furrowed.

"This is an incredible risk."

But in a moment his face relaxed, "But we have to trust each other. This cannot work without you, and it's the least we can do to show our appreciation. Let us think of something, I'll get back to you in a few days."

Zain waited eagerly until, after a hard day at school, he plopped himself on his bed face down and let his mind wander. That he'll be coming home forever through hardships, having to fight off bullies, sitting on top of an incredible treasure he couldn't see.

He got up to go to his mom's laundromat when he heard a distinct "psst!"

The small flap by the bottom of his bed was open again, and the two pairs of eyes were big with excitement, both with raised eyebrows.

"We found a way!" Josslyn whispered.

"It was Josslyn's idea." 

"It's the only way I think. It's called the tube."

**********************************************

Picture, blueprint of the tube.

 _The tube is a pressure powered vehicle running passengers between oceans, cities and continents_

**********************************************

            

"So, it's like a train?"

"Much faster than a train, Zain. It's been in use since 1750. It is usually very expensive and requires many documents, but I have some old clothes left and updated some documents. Enough for you to pass as a foreign BySider. I've also made you some interesting inventions to pass as one. You will need to stay quiet as much as possible though, your accent will give you away.

You're taking a huge risk here Zain. If we are not careful we'll all regret this. Are you sure?" Mr. Husk said, watching his face cautiously.

"Here's the book." Zain said, placing a library book in front of the two pairs of eyes. 

With a deep breathe, Zain exhaled "I'm ready."

-=-=-=-=-

Outside his apartment, once no one was around, he knocked on the part of the wall where he first chased down Josslyn weeks ago. The door opened in a second and Josslyn quickly pulled him inside and sealed it.

"Are you pretty excited?" She asked him as they walked down the dark tunnel to her wagon wheel house.

"I'm pretty excited, yeah. I can't believe it. How's your Dad's and your work going?"

"Dad has been working on some great stuff. He even got to sell something! So we've got a treat for you. He told me not to tell you what it is though."

Mr. Husk remained incredibly focused even as the door swung open. The house looked far brighter and messier than it did before. Lights were strung up all over it. Bulbs of all sizes stuck out, some wrapped in strings of leather. The wall to wall table was set up in front of Mr. Husk. Small machines moved and jiggled on it.

Things crawled and emitted sparks. Some small mechanical things were flying around the room with little plumes of smoke and steam coming out of them. Some small toys fell off. Mr. Husk himself was bent over a small fan which he delicately screwed in from different sides. The little inventions made the place feel like an alive mess.

Zain stood motionless taking everything in. Josslyn hopped over the table and hugged her father's shoulder.

"Dad."

Mr. Husk woke up from his concentration, and spun around smiling.

"Zain! Zain this is wonderful. This is unbelievably fantastic. You have opened up so much for us. Electricity is madness, seriously. We'll be drunk with this stuff by the time we're done with it."

Mr. Husk opened up his drawer and more mechanical toys were alive. Some had hundreds of tiny cogs and wheels turning them. The little machines were pinching, wriggling and jumping.

"There is no end to it! We'll be drowning in it! It brings a new meaning to living." He petted a little mechanical worm just before it fell off his desk, and Zain watched it twist on the floor.

"This is far out." ((look up 70's lingo)) Zain said.

"Far out... Is that a distance metaphor? As in it's in space? I hope that means we're getting on really well." Mr. Husk threw a coat at Zain. "But we're going out! You'll need this. You deserve something far better than to walk down tunnels, so we have some shopping to do. I've been showing these to the mayor, and a few stores, and we have an advance now. So we're going to get us a feast."

Josslyn took Zain to a closet where he dressed in how Mr. Husk thought the clothes fit together. ((Research what londoners wore in the 1940's)) He wore suspenders holding up some very baggy beige pants with a striped blue shirt. His jacket was half leather half wool with pictures of animals on it.

"Is this alright? Is this how foreign people dress in the BySide overseas?"

Mr. Husk grabbed a few things and stuffed them into his pockets. Some tried crawling out. "Fashion." Mr. Husk said distracted, "is denial."

"What does that mean?" Zain whispered to Josslyn.

"It's just one of the things he says." Josslyn whispered back.

"He says a lot of things." Zain replied quietly.

Finally, Mr. Husk pushed the table back into the wall. He picked a few inventions up and locked them in a cubby with four sets of tiny keys he pulled from one of his many pockets.

Josslyn pushed a button and the house moved until it was aligned with a door frame. The door had a circular frame and was just a bit short than Mr. Husk.

"You think you'll be fine?" Josslyn asked Zain, who fitted on his goggles.

Without waiting for a reply Mr. Husk threw open the door. The two kids looked at eachother and the three trundled off down the tunnel.








So many switches and knobs were in the corridors they passed.

"Everything is standardized." Josslyn whispered to him. "Different colors and shapes mean different things, some do actions on the shops while others are for the BySide."

Etchings on the wall indicated the height and the overlay of what designs were to be. Most things were covered in a fine dust, 











"Well, they surround us, everywhere. They're walking on our heads. We notice it in everything we do." Mr. Husk said 





























----

"You eat Dodos"?

"Well you didn't want them so we took them back. They're so friendly you almost don't want to."

The dodo cocked its head and looked closely at Zain, then nipped a bit at his belt. Other dodos laid dormant.

----


Traveling through train tunnels, Zain feels the wind of the passing train

----


Zain sees/meets BySide Mayor? 






"What is he wearing?"

"Fashion is denial." Said Josslyn.

Zain thought about it for a minute, "What does that mean?"

"I don't know. It's something my dad says."

"He says a lot of things, that wasn't his best."



===============

The market place bustled like everyone's business.

The market was long, with what must have been miles and miles of road. The people overhead paid little attention to those below with the occassional tall person, like Mr. Husk.

The shops seemed etched in the walls. The restaurants all had standing room or stools. Doors slid open or raised above the shop like garage doors. The sold bronze and silver. Copper and even gold.

Every stall was full of something amazing to Zain. One shop was full of clocks. ALl kinds of mechanical birds winding themselves up and chirping at every hour. ...

Some shops sold food, vegetables and jerky of all kinds. Behind the stands of these were small rooms with shelves of growing plants with weird light contraptions and lots of mirrors. They stopped at one particular shop and Mr. Husk whispered to Zain, "Which would you like?"

He read the varieties of jerky, "Pigeon", ..., and finally "Dodo."

"Dodo? Is that real? Is taht really Dodo?" Zain whispered back.

"Yes, well, we take everything you don't want anymore to the BySides." said Mr. Husk, looking over the mounds of different fish eyes.

"Dodo went underground pretty early," Josslyn piped in, "It's delicious actually."

"Yes, Mr. Tsingyu cures it pretty well."

"Where do they keep it? Isn't it a big animal to be down here?"

"Basement farms, a seperate level flights down. But most are shipped through the tubes from the west w-... Why don't we just go to one then? We'll pass by when we pick up some more odds and ends."

They turned and walked down a different tunnel. A couple approached them as they strolled down the street. The man wore leather pants and had a leather satchel decorated with small meal designs. The woman wore a skirt with suspenders and a bowler decked in a fan and flowers. The man shook Mr. Husk's hand hard.

"Strigger!" The man bellowed, "Man of the hours. Have you rid of us of all our laundro problems yet?" he laughed.

"I'll guarantee you Josslyn and I are halfway there."

"Should be no time flat really." The lady said. "You'll lend us a hand later won't you? We have some erosion that won't quit. I'm sure the OtherSiders will have a fit soon enough."

"These days have been particularly rough. Some of the piping has us baffled honestly how any of them have jobs." The man bellowed a laugh, but no one echoed him. The man then caught sight of Zain but directed her question to Josslyn, "Josslyn who is this? Did you father finally giev you enough time off for a friend? I see you've been playing dress up with him?"

"What do you mean by that?" Zain asked, wondering if he should be offended. But Josslyn jumped in.

"This is Z... Xander! My third cousin! He's from Amara."

"Under the Belgian OtherSide? By the Anglophones-" The lady asked quizzically.

"Yes, he's visiting us briefly, arrived on the tube last night." Mr. Husk said abruptly, "He's a bit tired. No matter how smooth they say they make that trip it is still a few hours. The internal clocks are all off. We need to turn them on again." 

"Wendt Roth" The man said deeply through his beard, "This is my assistant Ms. Trudel Wren." Zain took both their hands and nodded, being a bit more cautious. He realized the Husks hadn't prepped him for any interaction so he was hesitant to say anything past hello.

"Hello?! I haven't heard that in ages."

Mr. Husk gathered the children hurriedly "I'll pass by tomorrow Wendt, Trudel. Always incredible to see you." then he lowered his voice to Wendt, "but honestly I need to be supplied with something of monetary value at least."

"We'll talk tomorrow." Wendt said with sly smile.

They were down the tunnel in a few moments. 



















=====================

Mr. husk directed the kids into one of the walls. A man directly faced them, with wrenches and utensils hanging above his head.

"Mr. Husk your credit is no good here..."

"Mr. Wimbledon!" Josslyn yelled.

"Don't Mr. Wimbledon me, Joss. You know it's tough as it is." and he began to pull the flap above his head down, but was interrupted by Mr. Husk holding it up.

"I'm flattered you'd close over us..."

"I can close whenever I want Husk."

"I have something you'll like Frin."

"No, you don't have any right to call me Frin. I highly doubt that's possible if it's yours Husk. I probably know everything you own at this point and I don't need any gadgets. I need to survive you know."

Mr. Husk pulled out Zain's grandfather's ruler. "What about this?"

Frin Wimbledon looked at the metal ruler. He measured both sides cautiously with a measuring tape that came out of nowhere. Satisfied, he replied with a stiff upper lip "This looks genuine. Where did you get this?"

"My nephew here just came in from the tubes and brought this to me. You can gaurantee it's back from over asiope"((asia + europe))

"You can vouche for this? You need paperwork fo-"

"Paperwork is unneccesary between friends Frin. Let's not get into this again. I give this to you and you let me have the pawned stuff."

"Is this from the black market?" Frin asked suspiciously.

Husk frowned at that, "the market is whatever color we paint it. It could have been red the day before and no one would have cared."

Frin stared at Husk for a moment, then slid the ruler into his sleeve. He dug through a thin box and handed Frin two tubes.

"I take more trouble from you than anyone Husk. Your lucky our fathers were friends."

"WE are friends Frin!" Josslyn said.

Frin smiled a bit and relaxed back into his seat.

--


As they walked away Husk whispered to Zain, "Don't worry, you'll get it back."

===========





The town square was immense. The metallic copper hew of the room shone the brightest, looking still like everything was inside a submarine. The huge ((courtyard?)) was like an underground theatre. People trudged about while tinny sounding announcements came through the speakers positioned around the haul. A few plants grew with carefully placed algae to color the square. It was very crowded while people laboured everywhere.

"I thought you didn't have electricity?"

"We do but it's only used very sparingly. We don't know how to make it yet so we steal it, and if someone finds out we're stealing it then we're done for. Basically it's only use for the speakers and lights."

The ceiling was too, where people walked with their hair hanging as if pulled to the ground below. Some women had babies on their backs, carrying them right side up while they were upside down. They walked over pipes and fading ceiling paint. Some walking down pegs on the rafters to the floor.

In the center of it all was a large fountain with a wooden podium in the middle. A few trees were there, Zain couldn't tell what kind but he'd never seen trees with those leaves before ((pelican flower? ceropegia-flower? Bushman's Pipe? monkey puzzle tree?)), with a series of mirrors above them in the ceilings. Some of the plants grew on teh ceilings in vines, forever moving towards the lights. Most of the light came from the ceilings.

============














----

The poster had no picture on it. It read:

	          Theif
      Reward 4000 and then some
  Stole 800 goods across the byside
      Probably hates babies too
   Call the commionser office at 82

"It's horrible, a theif." Josslyn turnned her head nearly right around to Zain, trodding in the tunnel effortlessly without looking in front of her "we already have so little, we can count the things we have. Then the theif hordes them, no one knows how it's eve possible to hide anything from anyone in the byside."

Mr. Husk shook his head, "Dispicable." He held on to his hat, it nearly flying off when someone walking on the ceiling hit it, "Horrific. But a very clever person nonetheless."
