ch6.

Mr. Husk pulled on a few handles from the floor. Up came a table and three chairs, sliding out of slots. From a hole in one of the legs Mr. Husk pulled out a map. It was in white and blue and looked very old. The map was covered with tiny diagrams and writing. Mr. Husk had to detach a magnifying glass from his goggles to inspect it. It stretched out like an insect leg from his goggle to the lens.

"This" he pointed at a square, "is where you live." he looked Zain sternly in the eye, "is that you don't live in such a great place. It's we call the OutSide. We-" he peeled back a paper from the map ((somehow showing what was in between the walls)) "this is us. He pointed at a this rectangle, "is us. We live in your walls."

"In my WALLS?"

"Yes, in fact," he knocked on the humming pipe, "this is what you hear from your room."

"You're in my walls?! I don't want you to be in my walls!"

Josslyn got up and turned a knob. A small flame lit on the wall, and she threw in some brown stuff and some water into a beaker and held it to the flame with tongs, smiling at Zain.

"Yes. It is as normal as you waking up, falling asleep and eating breakfast. We are your neighbors, for better or wors-"

"But definitely for better." Josslyn chimed in.

"For better! You see!" He pointed at the map, "also, you see this?" He pulled out a magnifying glass from his goggles, "this here-"

"Why is everything so small?"

Josslyn poured the beaker into three small tin thermos like cups. They were rusty from the outside with bent forks soldered on like handles. She spoke up, "It's small because everything needs to fit in there. Everything is carefully constructed."

"Everything has a purpose-"

"This is crazy! This is a nightmare! You hear everything I do!"

"Ah, that's not true." Mr. Husk said. "If we heard everything you did, then you'd hear everything we do."

"Can you live in my walls?" Zain was shocked, mortified. But, he deep down had a slight guilty pang that someone was interested in him to help them.

"We were here first." Josslyn said matter of factly.

"We don't talk like that Josslyn, nonetheless to our guest." Mr. Husk scolded.

"Sorry."

Mr. Husk calmed himself, closed his eyes for a moment then asked, "Zain, my daughter, though not the best way possible, was trying to kindly invite you to our home."

"I didn't know how you'd feel going into a hole in the wall. It's kind of intimidating."

Mr. Husk thought carefully as he said each word, "I assume you don't know about the treaty. How could you, anyway? By now it must be long forgotten."

Mr. Husk opened a cubbyhole behind him and pulled out a map. The map had millions of tiny details. Mr. Husk glossed over all of them as he fit an extar large magnifying lens on his goggles.




-----------


"Not all the kidnappings or missing persons end up here, but some are definitely here. They've taken up refuge for whatever reason and made the vow."


-------------































The poster had no picture on it. It read:

	          Theif
      Reward 4000 and then some
  Stole 800 goods across the byside
      Probably hates babies too
   Call the commionser office at 82

"It's horrible, a theif." Josslyn turnned her head nearly right around to Zain, trodding in the tunnel effortlessly without looking in front of her "we already have so little, we can count the things we have. Then the theif hordes them, no one knows how it's eve possible to hide anything from anyone in the byside."

Mr. Husk shook his head, "Dispicable." He held on to his hat, it nearly flying off when someone walking on the ceiling hit it, "Horrific. But a very clever person nonetheless."



----

"You eat Dodos"?

"Well you didn't want them so we took them back. They're so friendly you almost don't want to."

The dodo cocked its head and looked closely at Zain, then nipped a bit at his belt. Other dodos laid dormant.

----


Traveling through train tunnels, Zain feels the wind of the passing train

----