The market place bustled like everyone's business.

The market was long, with what must have been miles and miles of road. The people overhead paid little attention to those below with the occassional tall person, like Mr. Husk.

The shops seemed etched in the walls. The restaurants all had standing room or stools. Doors slid open or raised above the shop like garage doors. The sold bronze and silver. Copper and even gold.

Mr. husk directed the kids into one of the walls. A man directly faced them, with wrenches and utensils hanging above his head.

"Mr. Husk your credit is no good here..."

"Mr. Wimbledon!" Josslyn yelled.

"Don't Mr. Wimbledon me, Joss. You know it's tough as it is." and he began to pull the flap above his head down, but was interrupted by Mr. Husk holding it up.

"I'm flattered you'd close over us..."

"I can close whenever I want Husk."

"I have something you'll like Frin."

"No, you don't have any right to call me Frin. I highly doubt that's possible if it's yours Husk. I probably know everything you own at this point and I don't need any gadgets. I need to survive you know."

Mr. Husk pulled out Zain's grandfather's ruler. "What about this?"

Frin Wimbledon looked at the metal ruler. He measured both sides cautiously with a measuring tape that came out of nowhere. Satisfied, he replied with a stiff upper lip "This looks genuine. Where did you get this?"

"My nephew here just came in from the tubes and brought this to me. You can gaurantee it's back from over asiope"((asia + europe))

"You can vouche for this? You need paperwork fo-"

"Paperwork is unneccesary between friends Frin. Let's not get into this again. I give this to you and you let me have the pawned stuff."

"Is this from the black market?" Frin asked suspiciously.

Husk frowned at that, "the market is whatever color we paint it. It could have been red the day before and no one would have cared."

Frin stared at Husk for a moment, then slid the ruler into his sleeve. He dug through a thin box and handed Frin two tubes.

"I take more trouble from you than anyone Husk. Your lucky our fathers were friends."

"WE are friends Frin!" Josslyn said.

Frin smiled a bit and relaxed back into his seat.




As they walked away Husk whispered to Zain, "Don't worry, you'll get it back."