ch18.

Zain stepped inside and was dumbfounded. The house was clean, spotless. The wood had a sheen to it. There were no peices of metal on the floor. Tools were stashed away, even some he could see inside their glass cases. The lights were bright. It seemed all they needed was a bit of polish to take off the dirt.

Josslyn plopped down in the middle of the room. 







"I understand." Zain said quietly.

"You don't understand at all." Josslyn replied quietly without looking back at him.

Zain sat silently for a moment, unsure what t say. "But... I think I do."

"No you don't!" Josslyn screamed at him. She pulled a lever and the bed popped up from the floorboards with the matress following after it. She pulled an old pillow from behind a slat in the wall and fell on the bed.

Zain approached her and sat on the bed. He didn't hear her sobbing. He only heard the soft hum of the pipes around them. Wizzing heated water throughout the building.

"We're trapped." Josslyn sighed into her pillow. "We've always been trapped here. It's what Dad said. And he's right. I believe it too. We can't do anything. We're hiding in some kind of prison. We're slaves."

She looked at Zain with her wet red eyes as she sniffed, "The truth is there are no secrets. We could hide forever but someone always finds out. I'm sick of hiding. I'm not afraid of The Bysider laws. I'm not afraid of The Outsiders. I don't care anymore."

"You shouldn't be." Zain said, "your Dad doesn't deserve this, neither do you."

"You know, the only time we ever see the sun in New Mannahatta is behind a grate. So when I first came up to see you, I looked right at it. I know it was stupid but I didn't care. While I waited for you I danced too, even though I knew the consequences of going out. I could have died. I still can if they know. But I loved it. And now it's further away than ever." She flipped over and stared at the ceiling. "What can we do?" She asked herself.

Then she asked Zain, "What can we do?"

Zain was hunched over, looking at the floor. 


