NYC police all at the power plant.

====================================

bird becomes the friend of Zain. So when the Mayor sends it to launch the signal to blow up the power plant, Zain diverts it.

====================================

-------------

"I need that power."

"Which power," Mr. Husk shouted in  as the rain beat down on him below, "are you talking about exactly? It seems people are using it a lot lately."

"If you have money, you idiot, then you can buy power. Everyone wants money, and they're willing to give away everything else. Sometimes just for the simple pleasure of having it!"






----------

"You've read this whole book and you still didn't know it was me?!" The mayor screamed back at them.


====================================






















At the Brooklyn bridge.

The truck full of gold and money sat on the bridge between them and the mayor's creature-like machine. The machine breathed out smoke heavily from its furnaces, it was the only sound it made. The smoke drifted off into the night sky. The creature reache dover to the truck by a claw as it sounded off.

"Husk get out of my way." He sounded off in a loud speaker.

"Mr. Mayor sir," Rusk yelled, "you don't have to be so lou-"

"Moments like these were made to gloat, Husk!" the bridge shook with the seismic sounds the speaker amplified, shaking the bridge. The three of them hung on to the railing tightly as the machine edged closer, spitting and 

"Kind of a sloppy job with the engine." Husk whispered, digging into his bag for another aparatus. Zain watched him then back at the mayor, feeling his heart thump loudly against his chest almost to the point of pain. Josslyn squinted watching the machine, pounding her own calculations back on her note pad. It soon filled with trigonometry.

Finaly Husk pulled out a jar taht erupted into thin sheets of metal shaped like a trumper with a huge spout at the end of it. He played it and it began to moan static with "M-Mayor sir you are breaking a million b-b-byside rules, can you take your money q-q-q-q-quietly and leave?" 

"Husk, you don't get it. They will follow us to the ends of the earth! Nothing is ever enough! The outlanders are brutal pushers that forced us to bury ourselves. Revenge is the only option now. We got it all wrong." the claw grabbed a hold of the truck like a vice and squeezed it. Zain squenched at the brutal sounds of metal twisting.

"We need to destroy what we built for them! It's the only way they'll understand! Ask that kid of yours! He'd sell his soul for this money to breathe in teh sun for teh rest of his life! Wouldn't you?!"

Zain could see Mr. Husk was thinking, but of what he couldn't tell. Perhaps nothing. Nothing came to mind when you were up against someone as cruel as the mayor or as cruel as reality. Listening silently for a miracle to come out of the bridge woodwork or the sea.

But they were alone, and the menacing machine drew another claw, extending it out towards them.

"Husk, I'll give you one chance. You and yoru daughter get off this bridge and I'll let you live. There is nothing else you can do anyway! I'm starting by destroying this bridge in 10 minutes" He laughed a cough hard into the megaphone.

"Dad it's off by 25 degrees, it's approximately 2000 kilos by the speed and way it moves." Josslyn uttered.

But Mr. Husk said in place, his eyes locked on the monster machine now beginning to pull at the heartstrings of teh bridge holding it up over the east river's mouth. Zain realized that there was no plan. There was no gadget to remedy evil.














=================

Machine starts destroying the Brooklyn Bridge, tries to crush Zain and Husk family

=================


"And what do you have that I don't?" he screamed. "You're just a stupid poor kid!"

"I have... Nothing to lose." And from there Zain through the ((special magic glue)) on the bridge beams, with the other bit into his machine. As it clogged the gears the whirling and howling the machine made slowly died inside.




The mayor stared at his useless controls in horror as it ground to a halt after all the gears fused together.