=================

Within the next few week, dayd after day Zain watched the outlet under his bed. It was like a phantom plug. It came out of the wall simply to go right back in it. It looked weird and they were lucky it was hidden. He still heaqrd the banging, though not as much as before. He wondered what they were building, just behin the thin viel of the brick seperating him from another universe. The universe of The BySide.

Once though. he tapped against the wal. No response. He tapped again, no response. So he pulled the plug.

A small part of his wall opened up, like a tiny door, and he found Josslyn and Mr. Husk's eyes peeking at him.

"What is it Zain?" Mr. Husk asked, whispering, watching Zain's bedroom door.

"I could get you books on electricity" Zain said in a low voice.

"We thank you but it's probably a very bad idea. The amount of beauracacy for just that plug alone is enough to dig through. We'd be in far more trouble than it's worth, not to mention illegalities. Pease plug it back in, we're in mid-breakthrough." They watched him eagerly as he plugged it back in, thanked him again, and shut the little door and with a few scrapes it was part of the wall again. Anotehr world that would materialize and vanish in an instant.

But seconds later the door opened again. "One bookd is all we need. If any are found tehy will burn us and the books. So we only need one, if you can."

"But you have to show me teh BySide." Zain said excited.

"That's impossible."

"Is it?" Zain eyes grew wider, "I thought you said nothign was impossible? That you being here was impossible."

Josslyn's eyes looked at her father's. Mr. Husk circled hers', Zain's and then the plug in the plug in the wall. His brow furrowed.

"This is an incredible risk." BUt his face relaxed, " But we have to trust eachother. It's the only thing we have. Let me think of something, I'll get back to you in a few days."

Zain waited eagerly until, after a hard day at school, he plopped himself on his bed face down and let his mind wander. That he'll be coming home forever through hardships, having to fight off bullies, sitting on top of an incredible treasure he couldn't see.

He got up to leave when he heard a distinct "psst!"

The small door flap by the bottom of his bed was open again, and the two pairs of eyes were big with excitement, both had raised eyebrows.

"We found a way!" Josslyn whispered.

"It was Josslyn's idea." 

"It's the only way I think. It's called the tube."

**********************************************



Picture, blueprint of the tube



**********************************************

             _The tube is a pressure powered vehicle running passengers between oceans, cities and continents_

"So, it's like a train?"

"Much faster than a train, Zain. It's been in use since 1750. It is usually very expensive and requires many documents, but I have some clothes and forged documents. Enough for you to pass as a foreign BySider. I've also made you some interesting inventions to pass as one. You will need to stay quiet as much as possible though, your accent will give you away."

"You're taking a huge risk here Zain. If we are not careful we'll all regret this. Are you sure?"

"Here's the book." Zain said, placing a library book on electricity in front of the two pairs of eyes. "I want to change the world, even if it's not mine."







-=-=-=-=-

Zain knocked outside his apartment once no one was around. The door he previously went into his building suddenly opened and Josslyn quickly pulled him inside and sealed it.

"Are you pretty excited?" She asked him as they walked down the tunnel to her wagon wheel house.

"I'm pretty pumped yeah."

"Dad has been working on some great stuff. He even got to sell something! Some we got a treat for you. He told me not to tell you what it is though."

The Husk house looked completely different than it did before. Lights were strung up all over it. Bulbs of all sizes stuck out, some wrapped in strings of leather. A huge table was set up in front of Mr. Husk. Small machines moved and jiggled n the table. Things crawled and emitted sparks. Some small toys fell off the table. Mr. Husk himself was bent over a small fan which he delicately screwed in from different sides. The place was a mess with little moving and flying inventions.

Husk remained incredibly focused even as the door swung open, and Zain stoof motionless taking everything in. Josslyn hopped over the table and hugged her father's shoulder.

"Dad."

"Zain! Zain this is wonderful. This is unbelivably fantastic. You have opened up so much for us. Electricity is madness, seriously. We'll be drunk with this stuff by the time we're done with it."

Mr. Husk opened up his drawer and yet more things were still moving. Some had hundreds of tiny cogs and wheels turning them. The little machiens were pinching, wriggling and jumping.

"There is no end to it! We'll be drowning in brightness with these things! It brings a new meaning to being alive. To bringing things to life." He petted a little warm machine just before it fell off his desk, then twisting on the floor. Then he turned back to Zain.

"This is awesome." ((look up 70's lingo)) Zain said.

"Awesome... What's that? I hope that means we're getting on really well." Mr. Husk threw a coat at Zain. "You'll need this. We're going out today Zain. But you deserve something far better than to walk down a tunnel. I've been showing these to the mayor, and we have an advance now. So we're going to get us a feast."

Josslyn took Zain to a closet where he dressed in how he thought the clothes fit together. ((Research what londoners wore in the 1940's)) He wore suspenders with a stripped blue shirt. He needed teh suspenders because the pants were baggy. His jacket was half leather with woolen animals on the other half.

"Is this seriously alright? Would anyone actually dress like this?"

Mr. Husk grabbed a few things (including some small moving inventions) and stuffed them into his pockets as some tried to crawl out. "Fashion." Mr. Husk said distracted, "is denial."

"What does that mean?" Zain asked.

"It's just one of the things he says." Josslyn whispered back.

"He says a lot of things." Zain replied quietly.

Finally, Mr. Husk pushed teh table back into the wall and pulled a knob. A net grabbed all of the invetions in one swoop, and Mr. Husk tied it off. He pulled anotehr lever and a door opened, and he threw the net full of inventions into a storage bin that emerged from the floor, then locked four looks with a small set of keys he pulled from one of his pockets.

With another level pull, the house moved until it was aligned with a door frame. The door had a circular frame and was just a bit short than Mr. Husk.

"Are you ready Zain?" Josslyn asked.

Without waiting for a reply Mr. Husk threw open the door. Josslyn and Zain looked at eachother and they trundled off into the tunnel.







So many switches and knobs were in the corridors they passed.

"Everything is standardized." Josslyn whispered to him. "Different colors and shapes mean different things, some do actions on the shops while others are for the BySide."

Etchings on the wall indicated the height and the overlay of what designs were to be. Most things were covered in a fine dust, 











"Well, they surround us, everywhere. They're walking on our heads. We notice it in everything we do." Mr. Husk said 


























----

The poster had no picture on it. It read:

	          Theif
      Reward 4000 and then some
  Stole 800 goods across the byside
      Probably hates babies too
   Call the commionser office at 82

"It's horrible, a theif." Josslyn turnned her head nearly right around to Zain, trodding in the tunnel effortlessly without looking in front of her "we already have so little, we can count the things we have. Then the theif hordes them, no one knows how it's eve possible to hide anything from anyone in the byside."

Mr. Husk shook his head, "Dispicable." He held on to his hat, it nearly flying off when someone walking on the ceiling hit it, "Horrific. But a very clever person nonetheless."



----

"You eat Dodos"?

"Well you didn't want them so we took them back. They're so friendly you almost don't want to."

The dodo cocked its head and looked closely at Zain, then nipped a bit at his belt. Other dodos laid dormant.

----


Traveling through train tunnels, Zain feels the wind of the passing train

----


Zain sees/meets BySide Mayor? 






"What is he wearing?"

"Fashion is denial." Said Josslyn.

Zain thought about it for a minute, "What does that mean?"

"I don't know. It's something my dad says."

"He says a lot of things, that wasn't his best."



===============

The market place bustled like everyone's business.

The market was long, with what must have been miles and miles of road. The people overhead paid little attention to those below with the occassional tall person, like Mr. Husk.

The shops seemed etched in the walls. The restaurants all had standing room or stools. Doors slid open or raised above the shop like garage doors. The sold bronze and silver. Copper and even gold.

Mr. husk directed the kids into one of the walls. A man directly faced them, with wrenches and utensils hanging above his head.

"Mr. Husk your credit is no good here..."

"Mr. Wimbledon!" Josslyn yelled.

"Don't Mr. Wimbledon me, Joss. You know it's tough as it is." and he began to pull the flap above his head down, but was interrupted by Mr. Husk holding it up.

"I'm flattered you'd close over us..."

"I can close whenever I want Husk."

"I have something you'll like Frin."

"No, you don't have any right to call me Frin. I highly doubt that's possible if it's yours Husk. I probably know everything you own at this point and I don't need any gadgets. I need to survive you know."

Mr. Husk pulled out Zain's grandfather's ruler. "What about this?"

Frin Wimbledon looked at the metal ruler. He measured both sides cautiously with a measuring tape that came out of nowhere. Satisfied, he replied with a stiff upper lip "This looks genuine. Where did you get this?"

"My nephew here just came in from the tubes and brought this to me. You can gaurantee it's back from over asiope"((asia + europe))

"You can vouche for this? You need paperwork fo-"

"Paperwork is unneccesary between friends Frin. Let's not get into this again. I give this to you and you let me have the pawned stuff."

"Is this from the black market?" Frin asked suspiciously.

Husk frowned at that, "the market is whatever color we paint it. It could have been red the day before and no one would have cared."

Frin stared at Husk for a moment, then slid the ruler into his sleeve. He dug through a thin box and handed Frin two tubes.

"I take more trouble from you than anyone Husk. Your lucky our fathers were friends."

"WE are friends Frin!" Josslyn said.

Frin smiled a bit and relaxed back into his seat.




As they walked away Husk whispered to Zain, "Don't worry, you'll get it back."
