Ch 23. Without Mr. Husk

Josslyn emerged from another wall.

"Josslyn listen to me!" Zain yelled.

But she was gone, completely absent from listening. Zain knew she had little hope left, and he didn't have any to give her.

She entered back into the wall, and said "Goodbye," And sealed it.

...

But she dropped the special knife.




















================


convincing Uncle.

"Uncle Davey come on!"

Zain shows Uncle Birrilium.

"WH-Where did you get that?!"








=================

People were running everywhere. Windows were shattered with broken glass all over the sidewalks. Bits of metal and brick litteed the floors of buildings, their storefronts busted open with tons of looters carrying out piles of electronics, furniture and random equipment, basically anything expensive. The mayhem was so intense that sometimes when some of the robbers would try to exit the storefronts they themselves would get robbed by other looters. People were flying down the streets everywhere, cars were stopped, police ran every which way trying to catch up with and contain the madness ((calamity?)). With all the chaos going on, no one gave Jossly, Zain or Mr. Husk a second glance.

"It's nothing of a lost cause." Mr. Husk said as he hurrled himself off the bridge with a hasty jump off the bridge.

Zain and Josslyn watched him fall, his belt hook clanking away at the rope until he held it tight and swung himself under the bridge.

"It's no different from a tunnel or an elevator shaft." Josslyn said, checking the knots in the rope. She tugged on it. "We can't just sit here though."

"You want to go down?" Zain asked, looking over the railing into the dark water.

Josslyn looked at the water then Zain. "Yea I do. I feel responsible."

"Me too." Zain chimed, "Lets go."

They attached their belt hooks to the rope. Josslyn went first, and Zain took a deep breath, held on to his clamp and jumped.


















=================






NYC police all at the power plant?

====================================

bird becomes the friend of Zain. So when the Mayor sends it to launch the signal to blow up the power plant, Zain diverts it.

====================================

-------------

"I need that power."

"Which power," Mr. Husk shouted in  as the rain beat down on him below, "are you talking about exactly? It seems people are using it a lot lately."

"If you have money, you idiot, then you can buy power. Everyone wants money, and they're willing to give away everything else. Sometimes just for the simple pleasure of having it!"






----------

"You've read this whole book and you still didn't know it was me?!" The mayor screamed back at them.


====================================






















At the Brooklyn bridge.

The truck full of gold and money sat on the bridge between them and the mayor's creature-like machine. The machine breathed out smoke heavily from its furnaces, it was the only sound it made. The smoke drifted off into the night sky. The creature reache dover to the truck by a claw as it sounded off.

"Husk get out of my way." He sounded off in a loud speaker.

"Mr. Mayor sir," Rusk yelled, "you don't have to be so lou-"

"Moments like these were made to gloat, Husk!" the bridge shook with the seismic sounds the speaker amplified, shaking the bridge. The three of them hung on to the railing tightly as the machine edged closer, spitting and 

"Kind of a sloppy job with the engine." Husk whispered, digging into his bag for another aparatus. Zain watched him then back at the mayor, feeling his heart thump loudly against his chest almost to the point of pain. Josslyn squinted watching the machine, pounding her own calculations back on her note pad. It soon filled with trigonometry.

Finaly Husk pulled out a jar taht erupted into thin sheets of metal shaped like a trumper with a huge spout at the end of it. He played it and it began to moan static with "M-Mayor sir you are breaking a million b-b-byside rules, can you take your money q-q-q-q-quietly and leave?" 

"Husk, you don't get it. They will follow us to the ends of the earth! Nothing is ever enough! The outlanders are brutal pushers that forced us to bury ourselves. Revenge is the only option now. We got it all wrong." the claw grabbed a hold of the truck like a vice and squeezed it. Zain squenched at the brutal sounds of metal twisting.

"We need to destroy what we built for them! It's the only way they'll understand! Ask that kid of yours! He'd sell his soul for this money to breathe in teh sun for teh rest of his life! Wouldn't you?!"

Zain could see Mr. Husk was thinking, but of what he couldn't tell. Perhaps nothing. Nothing came to mind when you were up against someone as cruel as the mayor or as cruel as reality. Listening silently for a miracle to come out of the bridge woodwork or the sea.

But they were alone, and the menacing machine drew another claw, extending it out towards them.

"Husk, I'll give you one chance. You and yoru daughter get off this bridge and I'll let you live. There is nothing else you can do anyway! I'm starting by destroying this bridge in 10 minutes" He laughed a cough hard into the megaphone.

"Dad it's off by 25 degrees, it's approximately 2000 kilos by the speed and way it moves." Josslyn uttered.

But Mr. Husk said in place, his eyes locked on the monster machine now beginning to pull at the heartstrings of teh bridge holding it up over the east river's mouth. Zain realized that there was no plan. There was no gadget to remedy evil.














=================

Machine starts destroying the Brooklyn Bridge, tries to crush Zain and Husk family

=================


"And what do you have that I don't?" he screamed. "You're just a stupid poor kid!"

"I have... Nothing to lose." And from there Zain through the ((special magic glue)) on the bridge beams, with the other bit into his machine. As it clogged the gears the whirling and howling the machine made slowly died inside.




The mayor stared at his useless controls in horror as it ground to a halt after all the gears fused together.



============================




































ch26.

Bysiders come out of the bridge, eventually fix it.







The mayor and one of the other inventors are arrested.



After arresting the mayor, deputy mayor banishes Zain from the Byside and Husk and Penelope from communicating with the outside by signature.

Husk looks at it before signing,

Deputy mayor says "husk you're as blind as I am you know you can't read that now."



Mr. Husk moves his shop and house.

(But because by side people's sight is bad in the light, Mr. Husk writes a note on the bottom only to contact Zain under extreme circumstances.)

----

























A year later, the whole world was finally asleep. The pipes stopped humming and screeching. They hadn't for a year. Sometimes in the winter they still ticked like a clock, but only for a few minutes at a time. The room was almost too silent. The silence spooked Zain, but only until he fell asleep moments after getting in bed.

Zain's father was promoted and didn't work weekends anymore. His mother worked less ours too because of it. His uncle was still missing, but every so often they would receive gifts form an anonymous source at the pot office. Plenty of books, a few new light bulbs, a lamp, and once a boombox. Zain was sure his uncle got out and was in hiding somewhere He was less sure about the Husk family. 

Sometimes he sat up nights thinking about last year's events, wondering if he could have did osmething to stop any of it, and how much he was was proud of what he accomplished with the Husks. And how much he missed them. Josslyn and Mr. Husk knew him well, even understood him as well as his parents if not more so.

Once the summer started, Zain opened the window slightly to the fire escape and put a dish of seeds and bits of bread on it. Before sleeping he'd watch the pigeons land and dig into their meal, the metal scitters and low cooing were the only sounds they made. Zain didn't see any brightly patched pigeons. He looked out for them with every feeding but began to lose interest after a few weeks.











--------------


Things at school and home don't change too much. But Zain's parents w'rk a biless, Zain works a bit more to help them, and they spend time together. Zain is a bit street smarter at school, and focuses on his studies missing the interruptions.

For a year Zain doesn't see anything. He ponders the world and introduces a new kid so he's not alienated
One night, in bed, Zain sees thinks he sees the rare pigeon again. He runs to the window and opens it, but it's just a normal pigeon.

Out of habit or just a tiche knocks on the wall.

*knock KnOck knock knock knock
And hears nothing until, a moment later,

CLANK CLA

Penelope climbs into his window from a rope
"I can't believe you didn't notice we painted her!" Penelope says about the pigeon.

"What about the rules?!"

Mr. Husk peers into the window,

"Some things... Are more important."











Zain didn't wasn't richer. He did not become a wizard.

There was still another adventure to be had.

And his story wasn't over.