Chapter 4:


There's a correlation between waiting for meals and patience. Teaching patience:

- distraction while waiting
- Learns to play by himself
- Bake with them once a week (make them measure, etc.)
- Making fixed mealtime
- give them lots of opportunities to wait
- caregiver's sensitivity is super important. Depressed mothers are less attuned to their kids
- set limits, main problem is we don't say no
- you must teach your kids frustration, so they can learn to command themselves
- frustrate the child so he's not alone in the world and that there's a time for everything
- Whining is being rewarded if we give in
- If kid wants a toy, for example, then explain calmly that its not part of the plan of the day, then explain a story about yourself on how you didn't always get what you wanted.
- only explain you can't pick him up while cooking, explain once and stay firm
- comes from the expectation that children and babies can wait and we respect them
- parents shouldn't mistake an angry child with bad parenting
- kids should be fitting into the whims of the family
- waiting is a corner stone of raising kids

Morning, noon, 4pm, 8pm roughly

To do:

- Make calender
- make clock



Chapter 5:


Children reach milestones at their own pace. Children in France learn to swim at 6.


- "emile" children's book
- Having the child explore
- if a child gets everything they want, then how to make them miserable is to wait for a long time until someone refuses them. Then they feel worse about the refusal than not getting what they desire.
- rules create a world that is predictable and coherent
- Francoise Dolto - treat kids like people who understand you
- kids "paid" Dolto after her services with a stone or something
- Listen to kids, but don't necessarily give them what they want
- Tell kids what you are doing, e.g. give them a tour of the house when bringing them home

Chapter 8:
- Don't need to always entertain your child
- Guilt is a trap. Feel guilty and keep on living, the perfect mother doesn't exist.
- Have to support yourself in order to support other people
- Heavy dependency on mother to child and child to mother is bad
- "If your child is your only goal in life then it's no good for the child"


Chapter 9:
- Cover walls with paper to do art on
- Think at the earlier age is to learn social skills
- Earlier on it's for speaking
- Treat the kids as another adult or at least a human in thr room. "Hello", "goodbye", etc.
- Remember adults names
- Saying hello helps revent selfishness, so they don't ignore people. Also signals that their greeting matters to adults, making them feel confident.
- Story endings don't always end happily in French kids stories, implying there isn't always a happy ending.