If the show ended earlier (at least by midnight) then fools would dance.

  It was probably _a thing_ I guess.

Some beards were abound

clad with eigthies chababyness

 We shuffled left and right and looked around us.


 Adrian took a toke next to her with her boyfriend Hayden. I never knew what to say to Selina's friend. She worked in a coffee shop day in day out, surrounded by people who looked familiar but I didn't know. She gave Selina free coffee every time she visited with soy milk of course thanks. She coughed it up a bit, her face red. To Selina,

He said nothing in particular, which was nothing.


What kind of beautiful creature could dwell in this pit. 



"To Steve's!" Adrian yelled. Selina followed suit, and we slowly walked to Adrian's cyan beetle and piled in.

Inevitably, Adrian began discussing her family for a bit. People in her story were drunk, had financial problems. Selina and I echoed "Yea I know that's hard."

"I don't know what to do about my Dad. I don't know what to do. So many family issues and nothing gets resolved, you know?" She was talking strictly to Selina.

"No kidding that's hard." Selina stared out into the street. For a bit we drove in her bug silently. Hayden flipped through radio stations until he gave up. It coughed up something we didn't recognize, but we were lulled by it and the static with every turn down a street. A few cats were lying on sidewalks waiting to be petted.

"Did you hear about Darren?" Adrian said, her voice a bit less scratchy and distressed.

"Oh my god what a disaster." Hayden echoed.

 Selina woke up "No, what about him? Didn't he have a show recently?" I could see Adrian was still, her mouth straightened and formed slowly, over the next few minutes, into a frown.

 "Him and Gabe were playing a show at The Laundry Room the other day. With his band Hellen Killer? You know. Darren thought that it would be cool if he brought some lighter fluid right? It would be a great show. He dumped a bit on his guitar and lit it on fire, and continued to play as much as he could. But the space is pretty small, and the fire slowly got out of control. The whole place was wood. And while he was taking his guitar off he kicked the lighter fluid into the crowd. This girl ended up catching on fire and the paramedics came. It was 2 a.m. and everyone was panicking."

"****" I said, any expression I had before fell to the floor of the car, rolling back and forth as the car turned.

"What happened to the girl?" Selina whispered in shock.

"Well the horrible thing is she ended up in the hospital with two degree burns. Everyone is blaming them and berating Darren and Gabe any way they can. On their flyers too now. It's horrible. They visited the girl in the hospital a few times and apologized." Adrian then turned to Selina, stern, "It didn't make a difference. Also The Laundry Room is gone, it burnt down that night. No one can play there any more."

"God, that's horrible." Selina said.

"No one stops telling them they're jerks. I mean no one thinks about them. Darren feels horrible and they don't have to make him feel any worse. They probably won't play for months too, how could they?"


----------




Parties like these were brutally exhausting without something substantial to dull me. Weed was usually the norm but light drinking was another option I took up. I never overindulged, but inhaled just enough to feel like it was working. 


