Despite all the vapers outside, smoke still lingered and began settling. The hazy room held leather and jean jackets of all characters and shapes. I pushed a bit through expecting to find Selina or someone I knew, but it was a loss with this crowd and I was sure she wasn't there yet. I decided to just take to watching the stage silently as the band on it bled its electronic heart out.

There were only two on stage. The lackluster crowd blew bubbles and shuffled in place silently. The band member in the back wore aviator shades a la seventies. Familiar dry techno hums suddenly sounded, and as they dribbled into the room like repeated fingers wrapping on a table. The other, a messy blonde hair picked up the mike and dug it in behind his mop. He staggered a bit, having drunken a few.

They droned on and the set slowed. Every beat was maticulously calously calculated, every song featured the singer closing his eyes tight in a forced bliss. We watched on until it ended and we couldn't and most filed to the bar.

As the crowd slowly dispersed I depressed against the front of the stage. The blonde singer appeared, bearing a beer in hand. Somehow his eye caught mine and we drifted toward each other. The background mug clinks and chats drowned out most of our words. They weren't needed though. Because between sips, his breathe and half drunken elequence he made all his points.

"Interesting set."

"You're welcome."

"I actually didn't like the song about Mexico City. Though."

I could barely hear him when he yelled "Why?!".

And I said I just didn't like it. Provoking. Of course no one was allowed to say it but I gave it a shot. I didn't care about him not caring how much his voice syntha-sucked.

"No no no. You don't understand man. You don't understand. It was Brazilian minimal techno, a mix of Brian Eno's best dance stuff he was doing in the late 90's. Hip hop, you know Mexican hip-hop? You'll have to listen to it again I don't believe you you just don't understand it..."

I said "Yea, maybe I don't understand it."

"No it's ok you have to realize this is great."

There was a weird silence between us while the room crunched papers of conversation.

"You liked the other stuff right?"

"Maybe." I said.

And like that soon we faded awkwardly into a crowd of awkwards.

I noticed Gaby, Prof's ex was in the crowd.

"Hi Gaby" I said. Her tan skin complemented her polka dotted apron skirt. The grey white collared shirt accented the two ear piercings per ear. The contract of white socks with black shoes flattered her. Her spanish short hair was in a bob, and long eye lashes held tightly to her real ones.

"Hey, it's been a while, yea?"

"Yea no kidding it has. What's going on?"

"Nothing much. "

I thought about topics, any really because we shared almost none. Then I remembered "Hey I heard Ernst Hirsch stayed at your place! That's crazy."

"Yea isn't that? Who told you that?" she said it with a huge smiling smug mug.

"Hmm, Prof actually. What's he like?"

"He's unreal, honestly. I mean now he's pretty old, like sixty or so, but he still has a thick German accent. He smoked up a lot when we were there. I don't have a car either so I had to pay for his taxis, since he was getting older he couldnt walk much anywhere."

"That's what I would have expected though, but that's awesome."

Prof came up inevitably. "You see Prof a lot?" Gaby asked. 

"Honestly not really recently. He's working a lot and we don't really have much in common anymore."

What's he up to. Yes they talk occassionally. Not that much but recently they started talking again.









------------------


One night I went to a show alone. Renee was off at one of her retreats in the forest and Selina continued down a dating road and her future prospects, very oddly never seeming to stick.

My long walk took me down alleys and construcion sites, through lost lots of the city's soul. A few randoms shuffled along, tehy spoke audible English but no words understandble. I pleaded with myself never to do this again. Walking to shows for so long, intentionally ignoring maps, missing buses I thought were too slow for me.

The show was advertised in a zine I found in a coffee shop. The venue was only called Stiff and was very difficult to find. For a good half an hour I ended up in some projects. They were buildings with sprinkled sores, and next to those were boarded up houses. Some high tension antisocials walked the streets, and I was taken aback a bit especially when two biking assholes shot a high pitched scream and then looked to me for a reaction. But afterwards two jean jacket wearing randoms finally directed me to a place two train stations away. It was above Whatever Tattoo, and the show itself was in someone's living room. An art collective that housed all kinds of artists, none of which were classical. As long as they chugged out music and art they could scrape by and slowly mold with the apartments they lived in.

Inside everyone huddled together in small clumps of friends. Most of the guys held beers and shook hands. Some of the guys cross dressed. They wore stockings and long hair smiling behind their drinks. Others had thick beards. One later that night sang about a bully he encountered in a bar and whispered very softly, "fuck you guy".

The girls were very ecletic. One tied her t-shirt up to see her stomach. Her tattered jeans hung on her like her red face, bold. She blushed up probably from a few drinks earlier. Another wore a choke and posed against the wall. Another had a rip from her belt buckle down to her knee on the right side of her leg. One wore very bulky overalls with huge frizzy bushy hair. I was in love with most of these girls. 

One who sat next to me was dressed completely normal if she lived in the 70's. I chatted with her briefly and found she made sculptures that existed for only a few moments. They became sculptures suddenly, in between dances and mysterious gestures at galleries. I found it interesting and asked further about it, but she was embarassed and ignored me the rest of the night.

There was nothing to say to anyone except for nothing in particular. I asked where they got their drinks in this industrial wasteland. I asked what they did, why they were here. But the surprises on their faces or the sudden silences were too awkward for me. I didn't want to string together a few let downs, let them sip their beer and talk about how they distrusted and maybe even hated their employers. This left me to the concert and to try again later.

I think I was the only person in the crowd not to have a band member who was my friend. At one point in the night three of one of the performer's roommates came to see one the bands and left immediately.

I've seen similar bands time and again, and even the broken microphone couldn't make it more interesting. The first was a soloist, acoustic and shy singing about loving a girl, losing a girl, lost some hope but was still wishful. But one I remember clearly.

They were an unfocused band, and I couldn't tell if they were serious or not. Their drummer was lost in a dream, the beats were amatuer and barely audible. He donned a blue jacket until the attic venue's humidity slowly grew unbearable. The other three band members exchanged vocals with every song. One girl sang in a monotonous tone ((monotone)), the guy wore a denim dress and earings and his voice was low enough to skim the ground. All of this met my expectations.

There was a girl, young on the bass, who only sang the last song. ((Describe her young in a differnt way, too young to be there)) She looked no older than fourteen, small and petite with long dirty blonde hair. She wailed on sinking into an emotional abyss, her song was her leaning against a wall of depression. So desperate she couldn't see where she was going even though she'd been the same place again and again. And again. We all clapped on time when it was over.

The band played subjectively. There was no strict thought process, and were unhindered by talent. The drummer slapped the cymbals and snare, an obediant mime. Their pop was shaded with a question mark, and after every song everyone clapped. After every song the whole night everyone clapped.

And afterward they wound up XLR guitar cables, and sank into her tall Puerto Rican's boyfriend arms on the way out. The rest dispersed. I stood outside, idling, watching them file out and packing up. The young blonde girl non chalantly lit up a cigarette. Her eyes narrrowed at me for a second but then closed, pulling back a puff then letting it go. She wanted me to look, just for a second, follow by "What?"

And of course, the only answer was "Nothing."

She looked back at me, everyday getting younger, her bandmates too. I sided up with the drummer, thrown a bit to the side looking just as young and bored.

"So you came all the way from Boston? What's to do there?"

"Boston isn't really something you do." without looking at my face and my four day six o clock shadow.

"You think New York is something to do?"

"Yea, actually." He smiled, "What's wrong with New York?"

"Wha-"

"I'm not expecting an answer." he shrugged, "Hey we get by you know. We're not well known or anything but we get by. What do you do?"

"I'm in a band too actually."

"What about for money?"

"I work at a company making systems for ______, I write software."

"Sounds like a fantastic mystery... You play around town then?"

"We play but we don't like to play too much. Seems it would suck out all the fresh from it. Some, or even most people here play shows two or three times a month."

"I mean you have to get the word out though." He almost snarled, finally looking at me, "You have to push the boundaries."

"Pushing the boundaries," Andrew proded in, a mispresence ((out of alignment... But is already a MIS-precense?)). "that's what you gotta do. Andrew, nice to meet you." He stuck out his hand for a firm shake to the drummer, who was a bit bewildered.

"Matt. You know eachother?"

"Yea," Andrew snuck out slowly, "I've known this man for a few years. Sorry I missed your set Sir Matt."

"It's fine. I'll do it again tomorrow and tomorrow and the next tomorrow." Matt settled in, less alarmed, more familiar. His world welcomed a cohort like himself, someone he probably thought mattered around here.

I'll be honest and tell you their conversation was crap. It would have been more fun to drill a hole through my lung than to listen to small talk, weather talk, whatever talk. I stared at them both for a while, well aware I grew quiet around Andrew quite a bit.

----

Almost stabbing of Andrew

maybe more about Renee habits


