Ch10.

Andy surveyed the death in the landscape. The people there moved but they went unnoticed, as if they were just a part of the old buildings flailing or coming loose. We stood at the bus stop in silence except for Andy's loud hacking coughs.

He gave me an eye, and asked me to care. "Where's the bus? Where will it take us?"

"What exactly is wrong with you Andy?"

He squinted and shifted his eyebrows in insult. "What the hell is wrong with you?"

"Why don't you walk down the street or something? Why would you stand here?"

"Because," he started. But he never finished.

The whole bulky thing started to tear up in front of me. The eyes welled and rode down his cheeks. It broke down a bit standing there, shivering.

"To hell with you." He whispered at me. "You're going to burn."

"You go to hell, asshole." I told him, and stood a few meters away form him at the bus stop.

A few minutes passed by. I snuck a few looks at him and he coughed up a few at me. The bus was late.

A few moments later Andy started asking randoms basiing by in their blankets and thick holey robes if they had any crack. This annoyed me to no end but I tried to ignore it.

"Any crack? Anyone?" Andy yelled drunkenly. "Any crack Om?"

"Shut up Andy."

Someone squeeked by with a grocerry cart full of things. Umbrellas and dirty clothes and sheets in tangles. He stopped in front of Andy.

"You want crack?"

"Yes," Andy said calmly.

"I'm Alex. I own all of Brooklyn. Every street."

"The crack." Andy started to say calmly.

"How much do you want?" Alex said, eagerly in a hoarse voice.

"How much do you got?"

"A hundred a ball."

Alex stood ready to deliver, but Andy coughed a laugh. "A hundred a ball? That's way too much."

Alex immediately lost interest and turned away, but as Andy watched him go he said in a quiet voice "You motherfucker."

"What?!" Alex turned around excitedly, "What did you tell me? Do you know who I am? I'm Alex, I own all of Manhattan. I own your ass too."

They were face to face, all pock marks and acne on both were clearly visible in a standstill. Before the brawl occured though I ran over and stepped between them.

"Hey," I yelled, nervous as hell. "Listen no no, this is not happening." I turned to the man, "Listen he doesn't want crack. Really he doesn't he's so drunk and doesn't know what he's saying."

To Andy, "You don't want crack man. You've never had it and you're too drunk to try it anyway."

They slowly backed away from each other, but not before I noticed Alex repocket what appeared to be a gun.








I looked at Andy and he said nothing. The silence was only broken once his bus came minutes later. "Renee is a whore." Andy said to me passively, smiling as he got on.

"You're a whore." I called back after him.

He didn't look at me until the bus started moving. We stared at eachother, wth a pact for our feelings to be forever unresolved.