So that was three years ago. 





And you're going to wake up now. Please.
























We were stone chess peices on a concrete slab that stretched on forever.















 The tragedy is that nothing happend. All potential is wasted. Water goes down the drain, young healthy but wanting to live in a wasteland. Trying to kill themselves.







I was seperated from the herd of cattle that crossed the plain while a sudden darkness rolled by. It spread far to the outer reaches and plains beyond the pacific. When you are alone you have to become a lion in any way possible, otherwise you'll be eaten.


------------

The world is actually quite loud. It's just that so many people are deaf.










I'm sorry this confession isn't clever, but nothing about it should be or 'is' anyway.




















-----------------




The visa is still processing.







Two weeks later I took the flight back here. It was the longest flight I ever took. It lasted days, maybe months or years or centuries. It lasted from maybe a few years into growing up, the time I threw the tennis balls at teh neighborhood kids from our balcony. And then they buzzed up and you yelled at me, and then Dad yelled at me more. Or shortly after tha, maybe a month later when I went to school at 6 am and waited for my friends to arrive to pick up their report card on a Saturday, and you didn't know where I was until Sabra found me, and you hit me. That's when I knew I grew up.


Ilias is ok. Sabra is ok. They reprimanded me hard but they weren't sure for what, it was complicated and situations were complicated.

Would you ask me if I was sure about any of it? About coming back? I'm not. I'm actually quite exhausted and not thrilled at all. But it's not what I expected and it's not what you expected either.

Renee moved back in with her father in the midwest.

The rets of the people stil dwell there. They'll probably be there for years and never understand. Never understand anything.










-----------------

I'm sorry. And I'm sorry I don't know why I'm sorry.

-----------------







I didn't tell you this but I knew Dad wanted to ask me, I knew he wanted to ask me something so bad when he called. He just didn't know how to phrase the question. I guess now he's trying to find the answer and ignoring it completely. It's giberrish.

You know the nurse asked me to ask you if you wanted anything. You can tell me. I'll be here waiting. And after work tomorrow I'll be here waiting. And after that.