New Year's Eve, Six Years Ago

1.

The conversation with the supervisor didn't go well. There was no time off, not while she was still interning at the hospital.

"We have plenty of nurses lined up to do your job instead of you. You should be grateful that you can even be a nurse here."

"I'm only asking for twenty hours, please understand."

"We can't get someone to replace you that soon. You, like everyone else, would love to be off, partying on New Year's day, getting drunk. But the people who are here, are sick now. And I don't like to say it, but they they need you more than your sons do." The supervisor avoided Yuki's face. his eyes were on the papers that he shuffled in front of them, ones that he had gone through several times over already.

"There's a fee if you take off work that day. Two million yen." He said dryly. His thin gray eyebrows were forefully raised, his blank face hiding one of (contempt?). A face she was familiar with, one she couldn't stand, one she thought it would be heavenly to spit on.





Six years back, after she'd left her abusive husband with her two kids in tow, she set her sights back onto 











abandonment, feeling like she saw deep into the eyes of passive aggressive cruelty









I can't forget the New Year 6 years ago. I ran away from my ex-husband's house, rented an apartment and just started living with my children.

I already became a nurse and unfortunately it was decided that I would spend New Year's Eve at the hospital with a night shift. I consulted with my boss, but was not allowed to change my shift. I had to work at that hospital at least for a few more months according to the scholarship rules. Otherwise, a penalty of two million yen will be imposed. While I was getting a scholarship, I actually saved money without using it. But the money had been spent by my ex-husband before I knew it.

I looked for childcare facilities to accept my children aged 8 and 5 on New Year's Eve, but I was rejected by them all. All of my friends already had plans for the New Year.

I had no choice but to ask my parents. However, they also refused. My mother said she didn't have time because she wanted to cook New Year's dinner for my sister and my sister's husband. My father said he had to take care of the garden. They said many times in front of my children, "We're in trouble" or "It is very annoying".

It was just only 20 hours that I asked them for. From 14 o'clock on New Year's Eve to 10 o'clock on New Year's Day. 

If they said "It is our freedom", there was an end of the matter, but I couldn't understand how they had prioritized. There were many rooms in my parents' house. My sister and her husband were healthy independent adults. The garden wouldn't change after twenty hours. On the other hand, my children were only 5 and 8. The last time I asked "why", my mother didn't answer. Instead, my father said "Shut up!" and blamed me, "You are selfish." 

I didn't want my children to hear this kind of words. I pulled my children's hands and left my parents' house. While we were putting on our shoes at the entrance, I heard my father's voice, "Get out, get out."  

...There were only two weeks left until New Year's Eve.


※This is a continuation of my previous post. 

During the one-hour drive back to my home, I kept silent. If I had opened my mouth, I would have been full of sad or cursed words. I couldn't see through the tears sometimes, but I held the handle and continued staring forward. I wanted to go home as fast as possible. In the back seat, my children, who were usually cheerful and noisy, didn't utter a word.

I parked my car at a convenience store near my house and said, "I made you feel bad. Buy something you like." I tried to give my children money with a smile, but I couldn't smile well. I ended up crying and my children also cried.

My eldest son said, "Why not? Will I tell my grandpa we don't need futons, we can take the bath ourselves, and I can make rice balls by myself? I'll take care of my younger brother..." He still felt that was because of a little misunderstanding or lack of explanation from my parents and me. His innocence tighted my chest.

From the next day, I used my lunch break to ask the city's welfare department for help many times. According to the city's magazine, there was a temporarily facility for parents to take care of their children when they were unable to take care of them. But they said, "There is a facility. But at first, your parents need to come here and explain why they can't take care of your children." Moreover, they showed me that it would cost 60,000 yen. The price setting like that luxury hotel also surprised me but above all it was a problem that my parents, who told me to get out, couldn't come here for me. 

I said, "My parents won't come here. If my parents were the person who came here, I wouldn't consult you about this. I'll pay the fee. So please let my children use the facility." But they said, "Your parents' coming here is the minimum condition for your children to use the facility."

I completely understood that nobody would help us after all.

...It was Christmas day. There were only 1 weeks left until New Year's Eve.


※This is a continuation of my previous posts.

On the last holiday of that year, I went to a large electronics store. Before I got into the store, I called the welfare department again. Of course they repeated the same sentences, so I just asked them to keep a record of what I had consulted over and over again. And I said, "If the worst should happen to my children, I'll demand that records open and ask the world if this is really the right form of welfare."

At the cash register, I saw the procession of fathers in a suit who would be Santa Claus that night. They all had tired faces, but I wanted to tell them that what they had in their arms was absolutely happiness. It was a wonderful sight where happiness came in line.
 
I went down to the unpopular floor and bought 3 web cameras. It seemed like an inappropriate shopping for Christmas. I thought how good that would have been if I had not had to buy something like this. I made it possible to observe my children at home from outside with that cameras.

At last the day came. I had hoped that somewhere in my heart my parents would have come here to pick up my children, but that kind of happy ending didn't come.

I reduced my sleeping time before night shift and took my children to a toy store. I wanted to buy something that they could at least forget time and play. They both chose a toy that was too big to hold. Nevertheless, I saw they smiled sadly for the first time.

We came back home and they stood at the door to see me off. I didn't know how depressed they would be later and I said, "Close the key at once. I'll call you every hour...And if your grandma comes to pick you up, you will take this bag."

I was a real fool.
I was always really bad at giving up.

....There was 19 hours left until my saddest moment would come.



※This is a continuation of my previous posts.

Noone had helped us but I had to help the patients. I wondered what a cynical reality it was. My blissful, ignorant expectation, "when night comes, my parents may go and see my children", was largely wrong.

After the long night, when I arrived home, all kinds of long things were lined up in the hallway, such as a bat, clothes-drying poles and a broom. I asked my children why those were there. My eldest son said clearly, "If a thief had come, I'd have got rid of him with these things." He continued and said, "I think my grandma came here last night. Because we heard a number of tapping outside. I looked out everytime we heard a sound, but there was no one. So she came to see us in secret, probably."

What they heard must have been the sound of the door's New Year's decorations swaying in the wind. I lost words, imagining how much they had felt fear, how much they had expected, and how much they had been betrayed. I couldn't contain myself, and called my mother... Of course that was a bad move though.

I explained to her that my night shift had ended safely and how my children had spent their long night. She answered the phone in an unexpectedly cheerful voice, but she was offended in the middle and said, in a strong tone, sometimes with ridicule:

"Your children couldn't be bothered by the sound outside, could they? They must have forgotten their time and been absorbed in the game. I think they didn't even notice that you came back this morning. They would rather have a good night without you. Do you want to make us worse by making such a lie fiction? It makes me laugh."

Why had I had to hear such terrible words in my life?
What bad thing had I done to them in the past?

When had my children cursed them?
They had been always waited for the day when they would have been treated like any other grandchildren. ... Me too.

I'll never forget that saddest New Year's which I felt was the only three of us in the world.