I knew I was naive, but I didn't quite know how much. Naive enough to fall for every girl then. Almost every girl in the world. The only girls I didn't fall for were the girls who fell for me. British girls with bad breath and huge teeth. Heavyset girls from small towns who were determined to marry me on sight. Girls interested in fucking with my virginity with a complete lack of love. But I was only interested in the most unattainable. The most exotic and chaotic. Romance was very much physical, but in the sense of heaving eachother into the ocean, accidentally spitting in the other's eye, smashing our butts to music, roses and flowers blooming on our bed. Suave.

Once upon a time, in my first year, a very red faces girl with a very round nose walked beneath my window. My window was directly above the dormitory extrance. I could watch everyone smoke and drink quietly until they rough housed any style into the dorm. So when I looked up and noticed her, go in through my gates, my heart smiled and my stomach fell into a stupid. My brain barely sputtered because most of it was thinking of her. Playing, smiling and laughing alone.

She was a natural blonde. She smiled and laughed a lot, I learned from doing my rounds for the next few days on the lower floor. She lived in 103. She was also an avid, a person. She was also in my calculus class. It felt perfect.

"Oh? I don't believe I've heard a name like Heleen before. Seriously."

In the laundryroom, "Oh really? I live in 325 upstairs from you."

In the hall, "Hey you're in calculus I right?"

And she followed it all with careful listening, and when she brushed her teeth in the co'ed bathroom her eyes were wide open. So one day when I asked her a calculus question she got a hint and asked if I wanted to study together.

I was the happiest man. Boy. seriously.

I stepped into her room she read at her desk, and pointed towards the bed. On it was, "of course this is my sister, Aya. You weren't thinking it would just be us studying alone did you?" then very much so pronounced teehee in all its glory and laughed a bit.

Literally wearing cow patterned pants. A choke necklace. Her eyes were a very dark green, and her shirt had sequins that formed into the words "Stop Stairing" on her impressive chest. She looked up from her hair bob barely and suddenly, "Shallom ballom."

"Omar, but just call me Om." And I tipped my invisible hat. I noticed she was also reading calculus I. And like her sister also, suddenly, ignored me. I took up my place and sat next to her, fading in and out of their element. She must have skipped the first two classes.

These sisters were joined at the hip. Heleen's hip. Heleen was followed everywhere by Aya. Usually this worked out when they both sewed, knit or dove into shallow essentials.

Many men, including me, competed with their attention. Garson, their karate instructor, drove them everywhere with his german shepard. Morgan, a younger kid in our dorm, obviously got along with Frances.

Garson's attention for Renee, 10 years senior. Going to his house, shushing his chinese native parents back into their rooms. A person with obvious secrets clinging to desperations.

Morgan was a cad. He drank at a young age due to a patch of white in his hair. Him and Aya shared a smiliar longing, even those Aya's was much deeper and more complex than that idiot's.

Their characters are colored with my prejudices and jealousy against them, no doubt. How could I not be? They invited themselves along like me. Although their narratives, I'm sure, are colored with far less impressive imagery and plot. Their story of these girls, especially Aya, were the skim of soup.

Aya's fight with her sister

Missy

escape with Garson to shop

Grandforks, christmas. budgies and parakeets galore.

Grandforks again, 2nd time. The drive flexed by, but flew by on the way back.

Aya's return to university.
























I wish I could stay I remembered my studies. I only remember my feelings of barely passing, 

Maja's lament on how Aya betrayed my trust. She never gave me a chance to fill her empty heart. To slip between it's hard concrete cracks and spill a bit over teh edges.
