Have you ever heard of the Russam family?



Here they are together. From left to right:

father Mariam  big brother Rumi big brother  Zain ...   and Ruby, their bird



One day an old man ride in on a horse to their house. They took him in and prepared some potatoes.




The children didn't really mind the hard work, but it made them hate potatoes. Every meal was potatoes. A potato breakfast didn't taste much different than a potato lunch or dinner. Even looking at a potato irritated them.

Ruby also hated potatoes. After eating half of one, she threw the other across the room and yelled "potato!"

Everyday the children woke up, sighed, and went to work. Shovelling and hoeing. Mariam prepared the bread, cleaned the house, did the laundry. The children and the father tolled in their small field, happy because they were together, sad because they hated potatoes.

They only comfort in the whole world was chess. A game their father taught them and played with them every night.

------

Ruby also tilled the ground, hitting and scratching the first with a tiny hoe. Every so often

--------------

Have you ever heard of the Russam family?

Poco, the father,

Mariam, the mother

The four kids, Minsun 12, and Zain 5, in that order, dug the ground together.

Oh, and Ruby the parrot.


---------------





The Russam family sat snug around a very big fire in the heart of a Russian winter. This winter was especially upsetting. The snow fell over their wood house and around slowly. Soon enough you wouldn't be able to see the house, the horizon, anything really. They snugged around a fire and huddled together for warmth. Ruby puffed up her feathers sheepishly even though she was a bird, and nestled her beak in her back and began to snooze. She tried desperately to dream of somethign besides potatoes, like the sky. She was quite fond of the sky, since it wasn't white and bland and there was lots more of it. As long as her dream didn't play a trick on her and reveal the sky to be another potato.

Nothing usually happens at these kinds of times. Not fo rthe Russam family, not for anyone. Their taste for life was futile. Potatoes everyday, sell them when they could, sit by the fire. All of Poco's stories had been told in as many different flavors as he could imagine. Mariam, who didn't usually tell stories, even exhausted her own short ones. Minsun and Zain laughed and smiled all they could. Now was a desperate time. It was time to bore themselves. Since no one did anything, nothing happened.

Well, something happened. Some documents had been uncovered in the 1870's that proved something happened _for sure_. That something didn't bother knocking at the cabin. It forced itself against the door, hard, slamming it from the outside.

BLANG, BALANG, BALANG the door went, and the whole family sat up with a start, even Ruby was startled.

"Bandits, Dad?"

But Poco whispered, "Either that, or someone quite desperate.", and he started for the door. he uncovered, on the door, a keyhole he made by himself a few months ago by chipping a hole through the wood with some left over glass. It worked when it did, even through the snow. What he saw made him jump back.

"Poco?" Mariam said, the whole family watched him nervously.

((Ivan Vyslavovich))

"It's a horse." Poco said. 

"Just a horse?!" Zain whispered.

"I can only see a really white horse." And another loud thwack of two hooves banged on the other side. THWOCK, TCHA-CHOCK. And the metal key handle shook again, BALANG BALANG DANG!

"HEY!" Poco yelled. "Calm down and I'll let you in!" And Poco, very cautiously, ((grabbed a knife?)) sat still. He heard the horse shake, cold and tired, neighing weakly.

As he opened the door a very white tired into the Rusam's home, very much exhausted. Right behind it though was a somewhat small man. He too was ridiculously exhausted. Him and the horse obviously didn't want to muddy up the floor with their wet snowy boots, so they just stood against the wall, panting. You could see their breath freee in the air turning white. He looked around at each of the the family's faces and bowed a shabby tired bow.

"Kind sirs, kind family." the man tipped his hat. "I'm sorry for the intrusion, I thought this house was abandoned."

"You can see the smoke from our chimney Mr...."

"Ivan Vyslavovich. People call me Ivan, or Ivano. Whichever is easiest. Usually I go by Ivano downtown."

The main feature of the horse, still panting, was a very dark metallic gold mane mixed with grey and white horse hair. Without thought Zain felt bad for it, and fetched some water in teh corner for it to drink.

"Thank you, that's so kind of you." Ivano sighed, smiling.

"Everyone is kind here when tehy're not kicking down doors." Poco said, conflicted whether to treat him as a guest or a pest.

"Please don't think that, I'm not pesting. Or I didn't mean to. It's just, almost a habit, in my line of work. Things tend to be enchanted and you just get into the habit. I completely forgot there are tons of potato towns here. I'm so sorry."

"What's your horses name?" Zain smiled, trying to look in its eyes lost on the water.

"Ivano's horse. We used to call it the horse with the golden mane but you know it's just so long and impractical. And when you register the horse they want jsut single names these days. I get away with it for some reasons. You can call her Ivano's horse."

"What about Jimmy?" Zain said excitedly, "You want a potato Jimmy?"

"Jimmy? That's not even a girl's name-" Ivan looked a bit disappointed, but too tired to argue.

Over the next hour they all sat together around the fire, except Jimmy in the corner and Zain kneeling, watching her. They talked awkwardly about how bad the weather was to go out in, especially for what was obviously a quest. Ivano was pretty quiet though, he mostly just sat apologetic and noddy, very uncomfortable.

"I guess you've come from very far?" Mariam asked, Ivano still noddy.

((Ivano should be somewhat cocky, less apologetic. He's grown older and tired, and is royalty and feels he doesnt need to do business like this anymore))

"Don't tell me, you've come to marrry me?" Minsun perked up. She was so bored marriage seemed like a great deal. Ivano wore a lot of rings, even on his ring finger. They were all engraved and adorned with stuff, _markings_. So much so that it was hard to tell what was a marriage ring and what wasn't.

He stayed silent for a few days even. They knew he was disappointed with the potatoes and their moss tea. They definitely were, but they couldn't do anything about it. The snow trapped him for a few days, at one point covering the house's windows sky high that night and slowly melted away over teh course of the week.

It was a miracle they had enough food, even for Jimmy. Zain rode on Jimmy's back those days, digging his face into her mane. lying face forward on his stomach on Jimmy's back, even sleeping like that. They all worried about Zain growing too attached to Jimmy, especially when Ivano finally had enough energy to comb his yellowish white hair back in a slick, strong enough to go back to whatever his journey was.

"I'm sorry the trouble I've caused you kind people. Kind of people." He said grimly.

"It's no trouble at all, Ivano. We're just humble peopel doing what we can for travellers."

Ivano looked on at Zain, at the lowly peasants around him. He'd been thinking a lot these past few days, how far he journeyed (which wasn't really that far) and how old he was (not really _that_ old) and how nice these peasants were to him, how he'd been indebted to them, but then at the problems he faced. He summed them all up in his head. He weighed the pros and cons of his plan. He studied their personalities over time as he stayed there. It just might work, he thought. Anyway, he had made his decision.

Just standing there, Ivano blank faced, and paused, as they all looked at him blinking. 

"Listen..." Ivano started, "I'm, well, it's kind of a secret thing. But I have a lot working against me. Right now..." *

Zain brushed Jimmy in the corner, but teh rest still waited for him to go on.

"Listen," he repeated, "I've got this quest. It's, like, hmm. Well, it's a long quest but really an easy one." He relaxed a bit, "Look, I have this letter. It's sealed with wax, the mark of the tsar. My father is a Tsar and he needs to give this to another Tsar. I's a very normal thing. I'm kind of done my thing though. It's a combination of issues really." He started to stammer a bit, but calmed himself, "See, I did my quests already. I did some really hardcore stuff in my day. My Dad's pretty old and all he wants is someone to deliver his letter. I'm pretty old too, honestly. The horse with the Golden Mane is pretty old too."

They all looked at the horse, and it stared at them with its huge eyes. "Jimmy!" Zain yelled.

"And like, the Tsar, his name is Ivan too. He's Ivan the horrible. Two Ivan's, come on." His hands were out now, palms open with heavy gestures, "It's just not done. On top of that, I'm not really good with shiny stuff. I keep trying to steal it and I'm _so_ sure this Tsar has lots of shiny stuff. People will say don't touch and I'm a fricking clepto when it comes to those things. Also the Tsar loves peasants. I heard a story where a peasant and him hung out and stole stuff together. He wouldn't dare touch you."

Poco stepped forward, "I'm sorry Sir Ivano, your highness, what are you asking?"

"I'm asking that you go instead of me. Dork." Ivano became serious, "I'm asking that your whole family go."

"Wait, what?!" Poco jumped back. He was jumpy in general, he didn't get out much honestly, but this was a bit much. "Why?"

"In case one of you dies."

"Your highness Ivano, I can't bring my five year old son on a journey like this. It would kill them all just crossing these plains to the capital."

"Well that's your problem honestly." Ivano started to get cocky, slowly straightening and smiling.

"But our farm. Even you have to admit this isn't practical! At all! What would we come back to?!"

"I"m sure," Ivano became calmer, more surer now "That your Tsar will take care of you. Just say you are a messenger from Tsar Vyslavovich. The Vyslavovich are wicked awesome so he'll giev you foodstuffs or something, by proxy. Your potatoes may die, even if you're gone that long, you'll have some jewels or something to hold you off form him I'm sure."

"Why don't you do it yourself you hack?!" Minsun screamed, Poco and Mariam looked at her in horror, even Jimmy, but Zain just lied on her main smiling.

"What's going to happen, is you're all going to go to the Tsar, give him the letter, don't open it, and tell him you've been sent by me. And if I find out you told him the truth, I'll have you all killed."

"You'd make a horrible husband! No twelve year old would ever marry you!" Minsun screamed again, as Mariam held her back, but started to get angry with Ivano too.

"Surely your highness Ivano, you don't mean this?"

Ivano looked at Jimmy, "Yea I mean it." and back at the Rusams, "I'm ready to get out of here. And by the way, I'm already married. I've been married for years. I'd never marry a bratty kid like you anyway."

He walked up to Jimmy and took his reins, opening the door. "Get off kid."

"Don't take Jimmy away Mr. Evens."

Ivano sighed, "I won't ask you twice kid. Don't come between me and what I want. I was dead once for a month and I can tell you you won't like it."

Poco ripped zain off Jimmy's back as tears ran down his cheeks, he kicked and screamed for a second but knew it was useless.

"You don't get what you want kid. You'll never get what you want. You have to be a hero to get what you want. You're just a kid. Your whole family are poor and sad. And maybe they'll live if they can do one stupid thing."

They looked at Ivano, mortified (something you are when bad people do really surprisingly bad stuff exceeding your expectations), after they exhausted all they had for him he betrayed them.

On his way out Ivano handed Poco the letter and a few coins, "I'm not completely cruel. But if my father and I don't hear back from Ivan the Ridiculously Awful and Wicked in teh next two months, then I'll have you tracked down and your graves ready." And he shut his door on the way out, walking over gold dead grass and patches of snow. He got on his horse, and rode away.

"NOT marriage material." Minsun said, exhaling and angry.

"For the last time," Poco said, "You're too young to get married."

Zain looked out the window, watching Ivano leave. His horse was a bit unsteady, almost unwilling to go further though, and it looked back at their house every few minutes as Ivano forced it to continue to go ahead.

"Butterhead!" Mariam yelled, "What a butterhead!"

"Yes, that describes him. But not in front of Zain and Minsun dear."

"Butter" she shown her teeth to him in anger, "ON HIS HEAD!"

Ruby screamed "Potato!"

They paced about the house in anger, but were stressed at what they immediately had to do. What was out there, past the nearby village, they had no idea.

They had to leave. They had to venture out, over the thawing winter, past mountains and rivers and all kinds of weird people and really dork creatures. Creatures so dork and bizarre they're hardly terrifying, but way more studious and ridiculous in their character.

They packed as many potatoes as they could, and headed out to the village to get some apples and supplies for their long journey. They gathered their things and locked their door.
