
Baba yaga got in, what looked like, A giant omrtar. She picked up a ridiculously heavy pestel qnd started pushing against the ground, in agony, trying to move.

"Nnnnnghhhh... I'll take you there." She said between breathes, going no where.

"Why are you riding this?" Minsun said. "Mm..." Ruby cooed softly, a very confused bird puzzlement, tipping her head.

"Well," yaggy sighed, "it usedto be more useful, it used to fly. But I didn't maintain it over the years. You know, things get old."

"You always rode in this?"

"I did have some horses, but they were made out of fire. Very difficult to ride... Nnnnnnggghh." The mortar moved an inch, miraculously. "In hindsight it probably wasnt a good idea to buy them."

"You've got to be kidding me."

"Listen you get old and these things happen."

"Why didn't you get married?"

Yaggy sighed. "Listen, Minsun is it? Minsun. Ok so no. No no no. I'm not one to get married."

"Why not?"

"What's your obsession with marriage anyway, you're twelve. You don't need a guy?"

"No! I want someone to need me." Minsun stammered.

"Listen you can't get married if you have chicken feet."

"WHAT?!"

"Anyway", Yaggy grumbled, "You get things and they just pile up. You buy one thing and you use it, then you get another thing, a shinier thing, but your first thing is perfectly fine. The first thing sits in a corner. It gets all dusty with flies. And then you buy the next shiny thing, then the next, until you have all of these dusty things filling up space. Now you more to a new house and you have to take all of the things with you, too old to sell (because people like shiny things) but too many things to use any of them."





Eventually Minsun got in the mortar. It was brutal, how long it took as Yaggy dragged it inch by inch with the broom down the road.